This is not an economy that requires a
significant amount of job growth behind
it.
>> Jobs is a challenge [music]
as I think wage growth will be a
challenge.
>> We're not concerned we're going to see a
spike in the unemployment rate.
>> The labor market is softer than [music]
what might have appeared up till now.
>> I don't know if the market's ready for
seeing a negative print. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, [music] and An
Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right [music] now.
Coming into Wednesday, it's payrolls
Wednesday. Economists are looking for
payrolls growth to hit 65K as weaker
than expected data is keeping a bid in
bonds and the president is setting the
bar skyhigh for growth this year. We
begin this hour bracing for a delayed
jobs report following a string of weaker
than expected [music] data from jobless
claims to retail sales and a market
moving statement from pre the
president's economic adviser Kevin
Hasset. [music] One shouldn't panic if
you see a sequence of numbers that are
lower than you're used to. Setting the
tone for smaller numbers in the months
ahead
>> and setting a tone for sudden [music]
fears that maybe the US economy isn't
quite as strong as people previously
expected. We came into this week with
this feeling that it was all sunshine
and rainbows was $650 billion of capital
expenditures coming from the big
hyperscalers. It was going to create
nirvana of economic growth in the United
States. And then suddenly, bam, we get
the one-two punch yesterday of retail
sales and delinquencies. And then all of
a sudden, we have expectations for a
weaker jobs report, which raises the
question, are we underestimating
potential weakness in this economy that
could sty me some of the hopes and
dreams?
>> Well, let's pick out one data point, the
employment cost index, and I think
that's an important one. So I think
there are obvious supply side factors at
work which is what Kevin Hasset is
giving a nod to. We can explain [music]
away this story. The break even rate is
lower. It's contributed to that. I get
all of that. But the obvious tell at the
moment to tell I think historically as
to whether a labor market is loose or
tight are employment costs. And
employment cost was softer than
expected. And I think it's [music]
difficult to construct an argument that
coming into this year this labor market
has been tightening instead of
loosening. And this is something that
we've heard from a lot of economists
that if you want to understand exactly
what the dynamic is in the labor market,
take a look at how much they're paying
people. And guess what? They're
essentially not raising wages. And you
can see that actually the jobs that are
being gained are not the highquality
ones that are paying people a lot of
money. This is the reason why the Chris
Wallers of the world are very concerned.
And you've got the Fed potentially
pricing in at least according to market
expectations more rate cuts. A real
question though of whether this is
structural, whether this is cyclical and
at what point it will bleed into some of
the market moving offense that we've
seen which really has been driven by
capex.
>> Well, it's driving a big move in the
bond market. Let's put it that way.
Yields are low once again. We're down by
a basis point 413 on 10s. New lows for
the year [music] off the back of this
weaker than expected economic data.
That's the bond market. In stocks, a few
things to track. Charles swap and the
wealth management firms. The AI
disruption continues. it cascades
through the equity market and reaches a
new place. These stocks are trying to
recover following a dire day yesterday
and the introduction of just a tax
management tool enough to upset some of
the individuals in those names.
>> I love that even the CEO of Altruist,
which is the closely held company that
came out with this algorithm to have
personal planning programs, said he was
really surprised by the move, but great,
we welcome it. And guess what? We're
raising money. I mean, look, there is a
question of how much this is almost like
a witch hunt because we don't understand
exactly what some of this technology is
going to deliver. So, sell first and
examine later. And that ultimately
expresses some of the rotations that
we've seen with people just a knee-jerk
response to shed any risk to any
disruption. Well, guess what? We're all
getting disrupted. The question is how
and the question is how significantly.
>> In two hours time, Rick Worster, the
Charles Schwab CEO and president joining
us a little bit later this morning. Look
out for that conversation. Can't wait
right here on Bloomberg Surveillance.
Equity futures on the S&P just about
turning positive on [music] the S&P 500
firmer by close to a tenth of 1%. Coming
up this hour, we'll catch up with Stuart
Kaiser of City with stocks within 1% of
all-time highs. Scott Lint with the KO
Institute joins us as Congress splits
over President Trump's tariffs and Steve
Englander of Standard Childhood calling
for a street low negative payroll
sprint. We begin this hour with stocks
little changed ahead of the payrolls
report. Stuart Kaiser of City calling
for an above consensus 135 and the
unemployment rate to stay unchanged
writing the following. The market
rotation has been powerful and
prolonged, but will have space to run.
Stuart joins us now for more. Stu, good
morning.
>> Hey, good morning.
>> What's going to sustain that move?
>> The rotation, look, I think honestly the
rotation's been going in the direction
that most investors wanted it to be
going to be honest with you since
probably November. People have been kind
of selling large cap growth and and kind
of rotating into value and particularly
into cyclicals because anticipation of
the stimulus and a strong US economy.
So, we think there's space to go there.
Um, you also have to remember that the
positioning in large cap tech and growth
had built up over two to five years.
This is a massive positioning in the
market. You're not going to sort that
out in in four to 6 weeks. So, I think
if the economy remained solid and people
want to be in that cyclical part of the
market, it can keep going. What happened
last week or the week before really is
it was not the direction of travel on
that trade. It was the speed and
bumpiness of that. And I think that that
speed of bumpiness kind of created a
little bit of a risk shock um both to
quant and to some long short fundamental
funds. And that's really what happened.
It wasn't that people didn't want to be
in cyclicals. They made a lot of money
in cyclicals in January. It was that the
trade just got a little bit too hard to
>> there was a big if that you used just
then if the economy remained solid. So
let's get into that. Is the incoming
data beginning to undermine the trade?
>> Uh you know it depends which one you
look at. You know our city economic
surprise index is in very very very
strongly positive territory. Atlanta Fed
GDP is track, you know, tracking kind of
mid fours, which is very solid growth.
The unemployment rates at 4.4%. Uh to
your point, retail sales was weak. You
had challenger, you had Jolts, you had
claims last week, all that kind of
second tier employment data was a little
soft. So, I think by and large, if you
believe in just like the Atlanta GD,
Atlanta GDP tracking, the economy still
looks pretty solid. Uh people still want
to see this tax refund data, which you
know, hopefully the IRS will release at
some point. But so I you know it's it's
it's a mixed bag but you know as as you
mentioned with what what Hasset was
saying if you're trending at 50k let's
say as break even on jobs that data
looks weak based on our historical
standard but if that's the break even
rate then if you're printing kind of
subundk
weakening economy necessarily.
>> So if you try to sort of distill fact
from noise I'm just wondering what's the
threshold to undercut some of the
argument of some sort of economic
recovery that's been underpinning the
cyclicals. Right. I mean, it all isn't
just rate cuts at this point. It is some
sort of recovery. What kind of data
would you have to get to really undercut
that argument based on the fact so far
what we've gotten doesn't seem to shake
it for you?
>> Look, I I think it's the unemployment
rate. If I had to boil it down to one
number, you know, honestly, if there's
if there's three things you could tell
me ahead of time this year that I would
like to know, it would be unemployment
rate, average size of the tax refunds,
and open AI revenues. [laughter] If if I
could know those three things in
advance, I'd probably resign and just,
you know, manage my own PA. But I I
think I think ultimately this boils down
to the labor market. If if people have
jobs, the spending is going to kind of
continue. And if the arms race in AI is
close, if these models are kind of
within, you know, competitive range of
each other, all of that capex spending
you talked about, you're you stay in
that arms race.
>> Let's talk about the open AI revenues
because that's actually really
interesting, especially in light of some
of the uh disruption that we're seeing
in equity valuations. I'm just
wondering, how do you distill what's
reality and what's uh potentially fear
that's getting baked in? How do you
value something that seems to be so
undiscoverable right now which is the
potential of some of these algorithmic
uh some of these uh large language
models?
>> You ask AI of course and [laughter]
>> I've tried it hasn't come up with a
conclusive answer. depends which engine
you look.
>> Look, I I think that you know the issue
here for a lot of folks is especially in
the software space, some of these stocks
are viewed as having very low and
potentially zero kind of terminal
values, right? And if that's the game
you're playing, that is a very
high-risisk, you know, game to play. And
I think what you've seen recently with
some of these new announcements is, hey,
I thought that company might be
terminally at zero five to seven or 10
years from now. And now the stuff has
moved so quick it's like uh oh what if
that zero or whatever terminal value was
actually three years away that has a
massive impact on your ability to kind
of own these stocks and see them. I I
look I I think the market is probably
overreacting a little bit to some of
these stocks being full-time zeros. Like
any given company, oh I can use AI and I
could build my own HR software but do I
want to be an HR software company? Like
no I'm a bank or no I'm an industrial.
So, you know, there is a limit here to
if the business isn't is so bad that I
can just rebuild it in a month on AI.
Why would I want to be that business?
Like, I want to be my business and I
just want to save some money there. So,
I think the question here is isn't are
these things zeros, it's what's
happening to their margins and what's
happening to their long-term revenue
outlook and how do I value that? And to
your point, that is so uncertain, excuse
me, that you either need to do it
through options or through a basket of
stocks because putting all your chips
behind one or two of these is just it's
a tough game. We were spooked 12 months
ago as well. Is this a deepseek head
fake or is this the real deal? Something
that constrains multiples for the year
out.
>> It feels a little more deepseekish, you
know, for now, just given how much the
markets kind of recovered in the same
way. Uh the scary part about deepseek
was that was the shot across the bow and
then a month later we were at all-time
highs and then a week later we were down
10%. Right? So like the the sequencing
of of last year's Deep Seek event was
was a pretty tough one. It feels a
little more deep-seekish, but you're
definitely seeing a change a in the
reaction function to AI headlines and b
like how people want to want to have
that risk on. They've stepped away from
owning the spenders and wanting to be in
the spendes um and really I think
increasing the risk on the victims.
>> So certainly the capex buzz now are
higher than they were 12 months ago.
Without a doubt the enablers is where a
lot of people wanted to go, the chip
players. How well understood is that
story now and how well priced is it? I
the question there I think ultimately is
just like power usage and intensity in
the end right like in the sense like so
let's say take Amazon for example if I
don't like that they're spending $200
billion because I think that's too much
to spend well I must love whoever
they're giving that 200 billion to right
because they're over overspending um you
know the enablers and the so the memory
stocks the semis etc I you know we like
AI power gen first off that that's the
way we like to do it but again that also
has a tail risk to it because if
ultimately I need slightly fewer chips
tips are slightly less power that thing
also kind of collapses on itself. So all
of these trades right now are so sort of
knife edge and I think that's why you're
seeing these intense reactions to them.
>> Do you think deceleration in capex
numbers starts to matter? Deceleration
in growth of these capex numbers starts
to matter this year. I
>> I think it depends what the message is
on that. If it's hey you know we did a
massive upfront capex spending
investment and now we can enter a glide
path let's say where capex is x% of my
free cash flow or x% of my revenue and
we're seeing like a way to monetize that
I think that's a very positive message
if it's if the market forces it the way
the market forced Meta to cut spending
on the metaverse you know x number of
years ago and so it's it's kind of like
how is that message I would actually
wish these companies would say don't put
a 200 billion number out say I we are
spending x% of our revenues or x% of our
net income on this for the next 3 to 5
years because we think it's a massive
investment opportunity. The market I
think you know got a little bit
concerned that you know Amazon is
negative free cash flow in their own
forecast not in not in our forecast in
their own forecast. So it's it's it's an
issue here. Yeah,
>> I bring this up because UBS put out this
note yesterday that capex growth is
likely to moderate from these levels
which could improve investor perceptions
of those doing the spending, but is a
potential negative for some of the
companies in the enabling layer. That's
really the heart of the issue at the
moment.
>> Yeah. How much do you actually get money
going to Nvidia? How much do you get
money going to some of the other chip
players? How much do you get money going
to some of the infrastructure plays?
Look, this is the reason why this is
such a perilous bet and this is the
reason why you're seeing some of these
massive trillion dollar stocks trade
like penny stocks because ultimately
there's so many unknowables and the
scale of these unknowables are massive.
>> Just quickly, leadership has changed.
Yep.
>> That is quite obvious over the last
several months through last year.
Payrolls didn't really matter at the
index level given the contribution that
came from names that weren't sensitive
to payrolls. As that starts to change
with the shift in leadership, do we
become more sensitive to the incoming
data like payrolls at 8:30? I I think we
do because, you know, to your point,
last year you were in these large cap
growth stocks. Now you're in a more
cyclical economically sensitive stock.
So in theory, yeah, the market the
market leadership should be more
sensitive to to weak economic data than
it has been. And I can tell you investor
sentiment is going to be much more
sensitive to this because look, coming
into the year, we like that cyclical
play. And investors, I think, piled into
it. Two weeks into the year, we were
getting questions of is it time to
monetize this? I mean, it's that's
that's how sort of jumpy people are
about this. See, I do think payrolls in
particular, but the unemployment rate
specifically, I think, you know, is
going to be much more impactful than
than it had been in the last.
>> The bull case is the consensus view and
the bull case hinges on tax refunds to
your point, the economy holding up
because of the monetary policy cuts
we've already had from the Federal
Reserve and on top of that, the capex
spend. Now, how strong is that
confidence, that conviction level?
Because it feels like every time we just
get a bit of data that pushes back and
pokes a hole in it, things start to
unravel pretty quickly. It feels like
people have a lack of understanding of
exactly where this economy is going. If
we're depending on tax refunds and we
don't understand the scope of them and
we don't understand whether people are
spending them and we don't understand
whether that will sustain some of the
retail sales that clearly were pretty
weak heading into year end. Well,
clearly people are getting pretty jumpy
right now.
>> Equities this morning positive by a
tenth of 1%. Stuart, it's good to see
you. Thank you, sir. Stuart Kaiser of
City. The jobs report later this
morning, 8:30 Eastern time. Let's give
you an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara Anand. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hey there, John. Good morning. The House
set to vote today on whether to reject
some of President Trump's tariff
policies, starting with a resolution
opposing the president's tariffs on
Canada. [music]
Speaker Mike Johnson has been using
legislative procedures to delay these
votes, but three Republicans joined with
Democrats and blocking his latest
attempt. [music]
TSMC shares on the rise in Chinese
trading. The company's January sales
grew at their fastest pace in months.
The chipmaker reporting a 37% rise in
January revenue. That was way better
than 30% revenue growth it expected for
the full year.
The fight for Warner Brothers Discovery
is heating up again. The Wall Street
Journal reporting that activist investor
Anora Holdings has amassed a stake in
Warner Brothers. The size of the
position currently unknown, but Anora
reportedly planning to oppose the plan
to sell its assets to Netflix. Warner
Brothers has remained opposed to recent
offers from Paramount Skydance. And
that's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonyie, thank you. My apologies for
that. Vonyi Quinn on our briefs this
morning. Up next on the program, pushing
[music] for tariffs.
>> Tariffs are very important. I'm taking
in hundreds of billions of dollars in
tariff money and we're going to start
paying down debt. This country has never
been so strong.
>> That conversation up next with Scott
Lindum of the KO Institute live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
The winning streak ends in yesterday's
session. Equity futures bouncing back by
about a tenth of 1% on the S&P 500. The
main event later this morning about 2
hours away the jobs report looking for
something around 65k. We've talked about
a wide wide range for a week now given
[music] how delayed this is. We're
looking for something between 135,000
and 10k if that's helpful.
>> And that could be good and it could be
bad because ultimately we don't exactly
know what those numbers mean. We're also
getting the benchmark [music] revisions
to the quarterly household survey from
last year. This is important because we
found out yesterday that the momentum
heading into the end of the [music] year
was less than we expected coming from
retail sales. Do you get a similar read
through when it comes to some of the
revisions in the LOA market?
>> Governor [music] Waller looking for
what? Zero zip nada.
>> Yeah.
>> His words, it's not pretty, is it?
>> It's the reason why he has been so
dobbish uh and really calling for rate
cuts. And ultimately, you're seeing a
lot of push back from other Fed members,
in particular, Lori Logan, in
particular, Beth Hammock. How much do
you get consensus to [music] cut rates
in time uh based on what markets expect
are expecting right now? They're
bringing forward the potential for an
April [music] rate cut. It shows you
where their minds are.
>> Bond yields coming in just a little bit
on a 10-year maturity. We were down
another basis point 413 under Savannah
this morning pushing for tariffs.
>> Tariffs are very important. I'm taking
in hundreds of billions of dollars in
tariff money and we're going to start
paying down debt. What? This country has
never been so strong. I just hope the
Supreme Court does what's right for the
country because now will I figure
something out? But the answer is yes.
but it won't be as beautiful as it is
right now. [music]
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
House lawmakers set to vote on the fate
of President Donald Trump's tariffs on
Canada. A trio of Republicans joining
Democrats calling for the vote.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
from Washington for more. Hey, Tyler.
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. Well,
this is paving the way for lawmakers to
potentially rebuke one of President
Trump's signature economic policies as
we head into the midterms. We are
expecting a vote as early as today that
would look to repeal the tariffs lobbied
against Canada on an emergency basis.
Just as an aside, that is of course
interesting timing considering the
escalation recently between the two
countries. But this is expected to be
the first in what is likely going to be
a series of votes over the next few
weeks and months targeting the
president's tariff policies and really
marks a defeat for House Speaker Mike
Johnson who has spent the last year
trying to prevent his members from
taking politically fraught votes on the
tariff issue. Now, as we look ahead, and
not to get too much into the weeds of
what happened, but last night, we saw
essentially three Republicans cross
party lines and block Speaker Johnson's
attempts to block these votes. And it's
interesting because if you look at the
three Republicans that ultimately sided
with Democrats, they represent different
factions of the Republican party. You
have Thomas Massie who has openly feuded
with the president. Kevin Kylie who is
facing a very tough reelection campaign
in a swing district in California. And
then Don Bacon who is ultimately
retiring. Now a similar effort has
already passed the Senate. If this
passes the House, it likely isn't going
to make its way into law because
President Trump would have to sign it
and it takes twothirds of majority of
Congress in both chambers to override
any veto. But still, it could keep
pressure on this White House in a
campaign year when the economy is the
top issue. John, we know the White House
has been lobbying on Capitol Hill
against this measure. The USR Jameson
Greer was on the hill in recent days
talking to lawmakers about it and the
administration had asked in particular
for this vote to be delayed until at
least June. That's when the Supreme
Court term is up and we are expecting a
ruling on the emergency tariffs before
then.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. Joining us now to extend the
conversation, Scott Lindcom of the KO
Institute. Scott, welcome to the
program. Interest in exchange with the
president in an interview broadcast here
in the United States in the last 48
hours or so. Scott, the president was
asked about tariffs and he brought up
the example of Switzerland and he said
that he didn't like the way he was
spoken to, so he ratchet up the tariff
just a little bit more. Does that
undermine the official justification for
these tariffs?
>> Well, it certainly does. uh you know
this is supposed to be about a national
emergency that requires uh it's an event
that's so abrupt and so urgent that the
president needs to invoke uh powers that
are typically reserved to congress and
that the president typically isn't
allowed to access. So if the whole basis
for these tariffs uh is not uh the trade
deficit or fentinel uh coming across the
border and instead is uh the Swiss
representatives voice uh then the
president shouldn't really have uh the
ability to invoke these tariff powers at
all.
>> Scott, this is definitely going to be
something that I'm sure the Supreme
Court is paying attention to, at least
the lawyers who are arguing for it. I am
curious about what Tyler was just
talking about, which is that you are
getting some push back now from
Republicans around some of this tariff
policy in particular tied to
affordability concerns and how this is
playing through to their voters. How
much more of that do you expect?
>> Uh, I mean, I expect a lot of it this
year. uh in poll after poll after poll,
the president's tariffs just aren't
popular, and voters have tied them to
continued concerns about affordability.
You know, uh economists don't want
deflation, but voters do. And uh the
fact is that while inflation is slowed,
uh prices definitely haven't gone down
and particularly for key staples at the
grocery store like beef. And so, uh,
you're going to, I think, see continued
connection of, uh, the tariffs to the
affordability issues, and you're going
to see Democrats, I think, use that as a
lever, including through, uh, symbolic
votes like the one we're going to get, I
think, today, uh, if not tomorrow.
>> Right. This is the reason why people
haven't been paying attention to
symbolic votes is because they are
symbolic and that's the reason why the
Democrats have kind of been a little
impotent on this. The interesting aspect
is that there are a number of
Republicans that are starting to join
forces. And I do wonder how much heading
into and after the midterms you start to
get a real check coming from some
Republican constituents based on what
they're hearing from voters. Do you see
that as crimping some of the tariff
plans that have currently been laid out?
Yeah, you know, quite frankly, I don't
think that uh the Congress is going to
have the ability to uh do too much to
stop these emergency tariffs under the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act simply because they're going to need
uh veto proof majorities to get past
Trump. So, uh, even after the midterms,
I think it'd be really difficult, uh,
for Congress to really pass any sort of
tariff reform, whether it's to the
emergency tariffs or to the national
security tariffs under section 232. I
mean, I'd love to see it, but the
reality is these institutional uh,
checks are pretty weak because of of the
veto proof majority necessity. And
that's why I think one of the reasons
why the Supreme Court's decision
whenever we get it uh is so important
here because that would be a legitimate
check on those emergency tariffs if the
court really does say the president's
not allowed to use them.
>> Scott, we've seen lot of justifications
for the tariffs that were introduced a
year ago. Raising revenue, national
security, bringing manufacturing home,
getting your own back when someone
upsets you on the phone, all of those
things. The number one issue for me,
Scott, is getting China to rebalance.
And the Treasury Secretary had come out
repeatedly and articulated quite
perfectly as to why we need to do that
and not just us, the Europeans as well.
Now Scott, I think it begs the question
now after the evidence of the last 12
months, what we can actually do about
that because that trade surplus from
China has never been wider despite the
tariffs introduced last year. Yeah, it
really shows the limitations of
unilateral tariffs to do a lot to change
foreign government behavior,
particularly when it comes to a massive
economy like China that's dealing with
really systemic issues uh that simply
can't be fixed by, you know, subsidizing
a factory or removing a subsidy or
something like that. So uh the the the
fact is that uh you need a lot more than
simply applying a tax on some imported
goods to uh fundamentally change uh a
China's economic model. And quite
frankly uh you might not be able to do
it at all. Uh unilateral policies coming
from a single government tend to produce
backlash in the target country. You've
seen some of that in China as well,
where they're actually doubling down on
nationalization and self-sufficiency
efforts. Um, and then the last thing, of
course, is that Trump's tariffs haven't
just targeted China. Uh, when you're
also targeting China competitors like
India, Vietnam, Malaysia, even Mexico
and Canada. Uh, it makes it even harder
to induce those types of changes. And I
think again that's why we've seen record
exports out of China simply getting
moved to third countries that don't have
uh Trump tariffs attached to them.
>> A record trade surplus last year. Scott,
thank you sir. Scott [music] Lint there
of the KO Institute. Up next on the
program, Suturich Katali of Forester
[music]
Snapping a two-day winning run on the
S&P 500 with a very mild day of losses
this morning. [music] A bounce, a mild
bounce up by, let's call it 2% on the
S&P 500 and round this up. Still within
1% of alltime highs on the S&P 500.
[music]
Switch it up and get to the bond market.
2-year, 10-year, 30-year yield shaping
up as follows. Yields lower again.
Yields [music] are down every single day
this week so far, Monday through
Wednesday. The 10-year back down to 413
[music] and fueling that move. Weaker
than expected economic data, which is
just lowering the bar just a little bit
and putting more weight and more
emphasis on the payrolls report at 8:30.
>> Yeah, it's the fact that we didn't just
get one data point that was weaker. We
got several in a row. We got retail
sales and [music] then we got consumer
delinquencies ticking up. We also got
commentary from a host of companies
talking about how the lower income
consumer is really under pressure. At
the same time, Hilton's just reporting
earnings and saying, "We only see
tailwinds and we're honestly
increasingly optimistic about our
[music] performance and they beat
expectations." So, it is a very
difficult picture to really come up with
some sort of cohesive narrative.
>> Heard the same from Mario. [music]
>> Exactly.
>> Yeah. Brian Moan speak to Leslie Picker
yesterday. Same thing.
>> Exactly. We expect a strong market
ahead. We expect a strong economy. So,
how do you get a cohesive narrative? And
this is the reason why so many people
have been pricing in dynamism. You're
hearing that a lot. You're also hearing
the other side and we may hear more of
that [music] today.
>> Forgot that really strong ISM from last
week very quickly, didn't we? Just like
that. Kind of moved on.
>> I guess what [music]
>> exactly? It's the tug of war between
that and the string of weaker than
expected data we've seen over the past
few days. Get to foreign exchange. The
dollar down weaker for four consecutive
days. The euro stronger again 1914 on
that currency pair. As we count it down
to the open about a few hours away,
let's get you some morning movers.
Yahara has more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. We're seeing Lyft shares
getting hammered in the pre-market, down
more than 17% after it posted [music] a
surprise revenue miss and a
disappointing outlook. But what's really
adding pressure is the competitive
landscape and the fear that as Whimo and
Tesla expand their autonomous vehicle
fleets that ride hailing as we know it
may no longer exist. [music] So the lift
results not enough to ellay those fears.
Meanwhile, the crypto route at the end
of 2025 had a big impact on Robin Hood.
The sell-off cut deep into profits with
fourth quarter revenue with sorry
[music] fourth quarter net income
sliding more than 30%. But Robin Hood
saying that its future is not tied to
crypto. It's tied to prediction markets
with the CEO saying that it is one of
the fa it is the fastest growing
business in the company's history. But
that optimism not enough to lift shares
down 7% [music] this morning. And we end
on Mattel. Although shares are plunging
nearly 30% in the pre-market after the
toy maker posted a significant miss and
issued weaker than expected guidance.
The Barbie maker saying it expected a
surge in sales during the holiday
period, but it just didn't materialize.
It says that consumers [music] were
hunting for deals and that retailers
were were uh handling their inventory
[music]
very carefully. So a miss there. Shares
are down 29% now. John
>> Yara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yihara in the next hour. On
our radar this morning, rising fears of
AI disruption hitting wealth management
firms. The release of a tax strategy
tool by the littleknown startup Ultruist
sending shares of Charles Swap, Raymond
James, and LPL Financial tumbling in
Tuesday's trade. Elsewhere, Ford
expecting profits to jump this year,
even after a surprise 900 million tariff
bill at the end of 2025. The automaker
planning to ramp up production of higher
margin trucks and SUVs after pivoting
away from electric vehicles. And
finally, the White House adding to
confusion over trade. made a new fact
sheet on the US India agreement removing
references to agricultural goods such as
lentils and chickpeas. The document also
changing phrasing around India's offer
to buy more American goods.
>> This comes with a lot of concerns on
both sides in particular in India where
a lot of farmers have been worried about
some of the agreements that initially
were laid out to buy pulses which are
things like lentils and peas and things
that are really important. I think that
India consumes something like a quarter
of the world's total pulses. There's a
bigger point here though, and it goes to
the Ford issue as well. The fact that
Ford on December, I believe 23rd, got a
note from President Trump saying they
missed something and that they had an
extra $900 million charge shows how
messy it is to get your hands around
some of these proposals. That was
actually a proposal that had gone into
effect. The India US trade deal still
isn't in effect. And clearly a lot of
the fine prints getting worked out.
>> Execution's been a problem in the last
12 months. I think I'm understanding
understating that just a little bit.
going into the midterms. I would say
this about tariffs, trade at the White
House. Watch what they do and not what
they say because what they will tell us
repeatedly is this is good and I
understand the rationale for them
particularly with national security and
bringing some manufacturing home and
relying less on China. But when it comes
to the midterms and affordability, if
you want to make the case that tariffs
aren't harming affordability, it's
difficult when you keep turning around
and providing carveouts for the
consumer. And I'm thinking of things
like beef and seeing more of that in the
months to come. So sure they'll say this
is good for the consumer, but when it
really really starts to count and we get
closer to the midterms and we see more
carveouts, I think that tells you what
they really think about some of these
tariffs.
>> There have been a lot of issues with
execution. On one hand, it's the
rationale and how cohesive some of the
arguments have been. There has been a
sort of scattershot approach to
justifying tariffs and that doesn't work
in order to have any kind of continual
rationale. And then there's of course
the question of exactly what these
tariff regimes are because we don't have
details and frankly it seems like they
are changing uh for the moment. So it
raises this issue of can we price out
tariff risk for the rest of the year and
is the impetus going to be on reducing
them because of legal and frankly
popular uh challenges.
>> Affordability is a massive issue. Let's
keep it on the consumer. Delinquency
rates surging to the highest level in
nearly a decade according to the New
York Federal Reserve. The data adding to
a downside surprise on retail sales.
Suchita Gdali of Forester writing, "The
consumer is not happy. Confidence is
still extremely low and AI tariff,
geopolitics, and domestic polarization
aren't helping." Suchita joins us now
for more. Suchita, welcome to the
program. Let's talk about the tax
refunds because a lot of weight's been
put on that and there is a belief that
would turn around this story. Do you
share that belief?
No, because the tax refunds happen every
year and they really don't have an
amazing impact on retail sales. Um, the
bigger issues are the macroeconomic
conditions of the consumer. And given
that so much of the spending happens
later in the year anyway, um, I don't
think that these tax refunds are going
to have much of an impact. It may be a
short-term blip for a certain number of
retailers like Walmart. Um, but for the
broader economy, it will be negligible.
>> We were looking through the delinquency
data just yesterday. I'm sure you did
the same thing. Where are the problems
more acute at the moment? Is it just low
income consumers where we've noticed a
problem for quite a while? Are you
starting to see that migrate up?
The delinquency issue is uh is
definitely growing amongst lower
consumers, lower-end consumers, but um
the the truth is also that we are coming
off of record lows for delinquency
rates. And even though the number is
increasing, it is his it's still at
historical lows. And I think that that
is the there's the warning sign, but yet
there's not um the clarion call of we,
you know, kind of that the the platform
is burning quite yet. Um and certainly I
think that factors like consumer
confidence are a bigger issue because
that is being reflected in the sales of
some of these even mass merchants
companies like Target. So I I that seems
to be the bigger issue. Um, when you
look at debt levels, you'll hear a lot
about debt levels going up. The upper
end consumer, the most affluent
consumers with the highest credit scores
are actually the ones taking on the
greatest percent of debt right now. And
that includes everything from automotive
to home debt. And that is likely also
buoied by the fact that the the market
is doing well. So, the lower-end
consumer isn't necessarily borrowing,
but of what they are borrowing, which is
often things like student loans. um they
are defaulting more frequently.
>> If the lower income consumer isn't
borrowing that much and frankly if it's
not world on fire types of data coming
out of the delinquency side of things,
why weren't retail sales better,
especially given some of the guidance
that we got from some of the big
companies?
>> Well, I think that that is um what's
happened with retail sales is that it
has been essentially driven by the
higherend consumer for some period of
time. Um so you have not only the
higherend consumer driving
disproportionately greater sales but
that higherend consumer in many cases is
also trading down. So they are more
likely to even go to some of these mass
merchants whether it is Walmart or their
standby staple which has been Costco for
years. Um so that's what you tend to be
seeing and then the lower income
consumer is either cutting back or
trading down entirely. So, I'm not
surprised by retail sales being flat.
They've been trending relatively softly
for a number of months, and we
essentially see retail sales being at
pace with inflation now. Um, and with
the fact that um prices are higher, that
actually means the number of units that
people are purchasing is actually indeed
lower. That doesn't bode well for 2026.
So, I saw in a number of research notes
uh lower income people are definitely
having a harder time spending money.
You're seeing this across a whole host
of different metrics, but also younger
people and that was often uh put in
tandem with low-inccome. It was
low-inccome and younger people. I'm
looking at a story about how Five Below
is rebounding because Dubai Chocolate's
hot and they're really capitalizing on
it. But I'm just looking forward. How
bad, how dire is the situation for young
adults given the fact that you've got a
labor market that is questionable, new
hire market that's questionable, and
frankly the overhang of all of that debt
you were just talking about?
>> Well, the younger consumer for decades
all has has certainly been um you know,
kind of the the recipient of a number of
challenges pretty much since 2008. um
they've always come into difficult
economic environments, difficult
economic circumstances, tough labor
markets. It is there's more uncertainty
now than ever before. And I think that's
the big challenge. The the the
expression I keep hearing is peak
ambiguity. Um if we thought that March
2020 was a period of tremendous
ambiguity, we are at an even worse time
with respect to not knowing what the
future holds. Um, young consumers
certainly have been a recipient of that
and uh the the level of student debt
that they've had to take on and and
anytime you have higher interest rates
which may change the variability in the
overall payment structure, that's not a
good thing either. And if you don't have
a job to help offset and pay those
loans, um, that's certainly a problem
and it's going to be reflected in in
ultimately retail sales as well.
certainly for the stores that are
addressing younger consumers. Um how
things will change typically the arc is
that within you know 5 to 10 years most
of these consumers do settle down and
they go to grad school or they they
ultimately get some other job. Um but
what that job outlook is going to be in
5 to 10 years is remains to be seen.
>> I missed that bra. What's happening at
Five Below? What's not right now?
>> Dubai chocolate.
>> Oh Dub to buy chocolate. I don't know. I
I was actually What is that all about?
>> So, I was just looking it up. Actually,
you read my mind. You're looking at what
I'm looking at. I was looking up why is
Dubai chocolate such a thing? You go
into any store. So, what is what is it?
It's something that's a Tik Tok trend
that is chocolate with layers of
pistachio that are inside of it and it's
very rich and so people are very excited
about it and you can charge a lot of
money for it. So, probably the margins
are pretty steep which is a reason why
you see it at the checkout counters of
pretty much every uh every kind of
>> Have you tried it?
>> No. Have you?
>> Obviously. No. Well, partly because I've
seen it. I've seen it. Just don't know
what it is.
>> Partly because a I like dark chocolate.
>> Okay.
>> B it feels gimmicky to me and I have
this immediate aversion to to gimmicks
and c like Tik Tok trends in general. I
mean I guess that goes
>> I think we're months late to this. So
the kids are watching they're like yeah
this was like last year's story.
>> This is like six.
>> Suchita. Thank you. Suchita Gadali there
Forester. Thank you very much. Let's
give you an update on stories worldwide
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. At [music] least 10
people are now dead and 25 others
injured after a mass shooting in a
remote town in Western Canada. Police
found six people dead in a school,
including the suspected shooter who
appears to have died from a
self-inflicted injury. Two other victims
were found in a residence connected to
the incident. It's Canada's deadliest
shooting since 2020.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu meeting with President Donald
Trump at the White House today.
Netanyahu is expected to push for a
sweeping roll back of Iran's military
activities and its ballistic missiles
[music] program. Israel concerned the US
will settle for a narrower nuclear
agreement.
Four shares on the rise in the
pre-market. The automaker is saying it
expects its profit [music] to jump this
year despite a surprise $900 million
tariff bill at the end of 2025. The
company plans to increase capital
spending this year to [music] as much as
$10.5 billion. And that is your
Bloomberg brief, John. Hey Vonnie, thank
you. More from Vonyie in the next hour.
Up next on the program, counting [music]
down to payrolls.
>> This is not an economy that requires a
significant amount of job growth behind
it. That's how you end up with this
dichotomy of slower job growth, but an
unemployment rate that could decline to
4.3%. [music]
>> Steve Englander of Standard Charter
joins us next. His number for 8:30 -10K.
That conversation in just a moment.
Stocks are bouncing back by not even a
tenth of 1% on the S&P 500. A bullish
note out of JP Morgan in the last 24
hours. the Bravo Leos Bucha saying given
the [music] positioning flush overly
bearish outlook on AI disruption of
software and solid fundamentals we
believe the balance of risk is
increasingly skewed towards a rebound.
We heard the same really from Canis Eric
[music] Johnson on this program
yesterday.
>> Yeah. Saying that he really thinks that
that's going to lead an upward bounce
and you have seen some of that. Uh there
has been this question, Stuart Kaiser
raised this about how much of this is
technical, how much is this CTAs, how
much is this other traders that had
certain programs that were blown out by
some of the moves and now it's resetting
and that does seem to be what's coming
into the four right now.
>> Looking forward to the payrolls report
later on this morning. Some days are at
8:30 Eastern time under surveillance
this morning. Counting down [music] to
the jobs report.
>> This is not an economy that requires a
significant amount of job growth behind
it. When we hear Kevin Hasset say get
used to lower numbers, but don't panic.
An economist take on that is well this
is not an economy that requires a
significant amount of job growth. That's
how you end up with this dichotomy of
slower job growth but an unemployment
rate that could decline to 4.3%.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Traders awaiting the delayed January
payrolls report due out in just under
two hours time. Steve Englander of
Standard Childhood expecting a street
low negative 10K. Steve joins us now for
more. Steve, welcome to the program. If
we get 10K, should I panic?
you shouldn't panic, but um I don't
think the market's prepared for it. I
think there'll be a lot of sticker
shock, especially because the um
revisions are likely to be large and
everything's going to look worse. Um I
you know, I think it's complicated
because it it it doesn't say that the
economy is deteriorating
um at warp speed. What it's telling you
is that the labor market was never as
tight as we thought it was. And that's
going to be the message, the ultimate
message I think that they take away. But
initially I think we'll see a big market
reaction both in the dollar and in in um
money markets and in bond markets.
>> Steve, how well understood do you think
that is already on the FOMC given the
three cuts they delivered at the back
end of last year?
>> Well, you know, it's kind of understood
by look at the Bloomberg forecast of
65,000. you know, the consensus I look a
bit high. Um, and you know, it doesn't
look to me as if the market's fully
factoring in the magnitude of the U move
that's going to be made uh in terms of
revising the data. Now, it could be that
there's going to be this colossal
footnote, then half an hour later,
everybody's going to get it. But I I
think initially there um there will be
some surprise there.
>> So, Steve, many people will come on the
program, I'm sure, and make the case
that the so-called break even rate is
lower, that there are supply side
factors at play. The real slack
indicator is both unemployment and
wages. What do you expect to see in
those two data points today?
>> I mean, we're pretty much at the
consensus on the unemployment rate. Um,
look, I I I think the unemployment rate
is gradually rising. All the indicators
suggest that the labor market is on the
weak side. Not three standard deviations
weak, but maybe one standard deviation
weak. And and that's kind of what's
showing. PMIs are in the 40s. That's not
a recession. If they were in the 30s,
that would be a recession. But it's
certainly not good. And I think that
that's sort of the overall message we're
getting. Weak weakish labor market, but
not a disaster.
>> Steve, hasn't the market already been
primed for a bad number based on some of
the rhetoric that we've heard from the
administration? Albeit the
administration did clarify yesterday
that both individuals who talked about
this did so before seeing the actual
report. I am curious though, how much
has this market already priced in
something like what you're talking
about?
I'm I'm just not sure. I mean, I I
Googled birth death, I mean, which is
the big adjustment that they're going to
make, NFP, BLS. Um, there's just not
that much that's been written on it. And
when I see six, you know, we expect a
downward revision of 60 or 70 because of
the change in that model, it's hard for
me to see how you get a 65k consensus if
that's, you know, actually if we're
right. And I hope we're right.
>> Steve, you Googled, you didn't try GBT.
The reason why I say this is because
ultimately there's a real question
behind some of these numbers. How much
is this because of immigration? How much
is this uh because we just have a
smaller population? How much is this
efficiency? And how much is this
something different structural where
smaller businesses don't have the
confidence to invest in people when
they're investing so heavily in
infrastructure that could potentially
change their need for people? Do you
have a sense of how we can parse that
out in some of these numbers?
>> I think it's very hard. I I really think
we don't even have a good sense of what
population is. If you look at the way
BLS handles it, they they just throw
population change into January of every
year. And last year they threw three
years of immigration into January
number. So it makes no sense whatsoever.
Um, you know, immigration, you know, we
we really don't we don't have a census
of, you know, immigrants, undocumented
immigrants especially. So we don't know
where they were in the labor market. So
I I think it's going to take a while to
figure out. And well, as you said at the
beginning, I think we'll have to watch
everything that's supposed to be
correlated with labor market strength,
whether it's wage growth, whether it's
the unemployment rate, you know, other
indicators to really be um to sort of
figure out what's going on because I
think the numbers that are supposed to
tell us what's going on um are are a bit
shaky because of the way the economy has
shifted and BLS really hasn't kept up
with those shifts.
>> Well, Steve, we've got more data on
Friday. We've got the CPI report. What
are you and the team looking for on
Friday and how wide open is the door to
an interest rate reduction in the time
left that chairman Pal has running the
Federal Reserve?
>> You don't know how wide open it is
because, you know, we get labor market
data, you know, price data a couple of
times a week, you know, in one form or
another. Uh, everybody's talking
productivity growth and even with
yesterday's week numbers, we're still
like, you know, in in well into the
threes in terms of uh expected GDP
growth. Um, I think that's increasingly
the story that's going to drive things.
And, um, I I think the Fed after three
cuts, the Fed's going to wait and see
whether there's any indication that
labor markets are really deteriorating,
you know, faster than they were or or
stable. Um, so I think we ultimately
they don't move. That's our view that
they don't have to and that the um
equilibrium real interest rate is higher
than the you know flat 0.5 the very low
numbers that they've been putting out.
So we don't think that they're going to
move at all.
>> Steve consensus feels a little flaky. It
feels a little almost lazy. Tosslock of
Apollo talked about this. Given
everything in the pipeline we've
basically got people around 2% for GDP
for the year ahead. 2.4% something like
that and two rate cuts from the Federal
Reserve. Steve, do you think that masks
a much greater divide on Wall Street
where there is a camp of people who
believe we could see 3% GDP and a
conversation about hikes and then
another camp where they think that
growth could fall off a cliff and we'll
be talking about cuts again at the end
of the year?
>> Um I I I think there is, you know, even
with the productivity numbers that we
expect and strong GDP that that looks
increasingly likely. I don't think a
hike is on the table because the
productivity growth keeps a lid on unit
labor costs and the Fed will be watching
that very carefully. But there there is
this dichotomy um between you know
people like us who look at the uh
productivity and output numbers and say
this is fantastic. it's it's really
shifting and um there is a camp that
focuses on the labor data and says you
know ultimately labor weak labor markets
are to drag down the rest of the economy
and there's you know the the Fed is
going to have to react it you can make
the argument and we disagree but you can
make a solid argument that that's the
case
>> Steve it's good to see you as always
thank you sir Steve England there of
standard childhood I'm probably not
choosing the best words but let me have
another stab at it another go at things
I think the average right now marks a
much greater to divide on Wall Street at
the moment between the bulls and the
bears on the US economy and what the
Fed's going to do by the time we get to
year end.
>> I think a lot of people would agree with
you. There are people who think the
economy is going to fall off a cliff and
that's going to be five, six, seven rate
cuts. And then there are people who
think that there going to be no rate
cuts and we're going to be contemplating
rate hikes at the end of this year. And
so you've got the average of those two
that looks like a pretty continual
gradual easing cycle, which is what the
Fed is saying. But ultimately what you
see under the surface are people who see
the economy truly breaking out in one
direction or another. And that I think
is sort of the tail risk that isn't
being expressed in equities and some
other risk assets.
>> You'll see this again at 8:30 Eastern
time. Let's say we get, I don't know,
20K. Let's say we get 20,000. You'll
have one economist come on the program
and say that is absolutely dreadful.
Governor Wallace is right. We're on the
edge here. We need to cut more. And
you'll have someone else come and say
the break evens around that. Don't worry
about it. There's lots of stimulus in
the pipeline. We'll be at 3% GDP growth
by year end.
>> Yeah. Economic data has become a
roarshock test. And we've seen that for
the past couple of years. People talk
about how the data is not reliable, how
it's muddy. Even if it is reliable, what
do you do with it? This is the reason
why people are looking at some of the
revisions to understand just the
momentum behind some of these numbers.
But even then, what do you do with it?
And ultimately, do we need people anyway
in this recovery? I [clears throat]
mean, there's like you could go any any
level of derivative away from this
question to understand exactly how
confused people are. Ultimately, it's
going to come down to earnings and
ultimately the unemployment rate.
>> That's a preview of the conversation
about two hours from now. Up next on the
program, Lisa Shadow to Morgan Stanley,
wealth [music] management, Tobin Marcus
of Wolf Research, Binky Chowder at
Deutsche Bank, and the former St. Louis
Fed president Jim Bulard. The second
hour of Bloomberg surveillance up next.
What we're starting to see is more of a
rotation.
>> That S&P equal weight is where the
overperformance [music] has been.
>> Earnings growth will still be driven
largely by tech. Investors are more
worried [music] about being left behind.
>> What we have ahead is a very good
backdrop for equities.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance [music]
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. It's
payrolls Wednesday. The data 90 minutes
away. Equity futures [music] on the S&P
500 just about unchanged. Likewise on
the NASDAQ in the bond market. Yields
[music]
near the lows of the year on a 10-year
maturity down around a basis point 413
with the jobs data just around the
corner. And the number we're looking for
something around 65K. [music]
>> Yeah. And the real question will be the
unemployment rate because we have to
understand what exactly 65,000 looks
like. Then you also are going to get
benchmark revisions for the full year of
2025. What do those look like in terms
of the momentum? And ultimately this
comes at a time where a growing number
of people are questioning the bull
market thesis in the economy, not
necessarily in capital expenditures, but
in the economy and how far [music] that
can fuel some of the trades that have
gained popularity, including the
cyclicals.
>> So what are you pushing back against?
You're pushing back against the rate
cuts we've already seen, the tax refunds
we're about to get, and a massive
[music] capex, $650 billion worth for
the year ahead across four companies. So
add some on top of that. How hard is it
to fade that story into the year ahead?
>> It's very hard, which is the reason why
I think a lot of people are finding
difficulty doing so. At the same time,
how much has this been overpriced? I
think that there are two sides to this
question. We have to look at how fully
that has been priced in and then what
some of the, you know, flies in the
ointment might be, which is that people
aren't getting jobs. So that's a a
little bit of a fly in the ointment. You
say start taking a look at retail sales.
Oh yeah, and they're also not spending
that much more money. Oh, that's a
little bit of a bummer. So you start
looking at this and you say, how far can
the economy fall off a cliff? And how
much can that challenge some of the bull
thesis?
>> Do you think to some extent as well,
Brammo, that the market channel starts
to infect the mainstream [music]
economic channel as well? The headlines
we saw last week in software in the last
24 hours [music] in financial services.
If you work in those industries, you'll
be taking those stories seriously. And
when you start to plan the summer
vacation, [music] the spending on big
ticket items for the year ahead, is that
going to hold you back just on the
margins just as you get a little bit
more worry about the industry that you
work in. [music]
>> Well said. I would say that and I would
build on it. Not only are individuals
holding off, but so to our company,
small businesses. Why would a small
business invest in itself if it doesn't
understand what its own business model
might look like in a year? If you look
at peak uncertainty, this is the reason
why the [music] engine of hiring, which
is small businesses, I think that they
account for some 70% of hiring in the
United States. How much are they going
to really invest in bringing on new
people if they don't understand whether
they're going to have to lay them off in
a year or whether those people are going
to drag down the profitability?
>> It wasn't my intention this got gloomy
very fast in the last two minutes or so.
>> It wasn't gloomy. Not even trying.
>> These are the real questions that people
have ahead of payroll.
>> The stocks are doing okay. We're up by a
tenth of 1% within 1% [music] of alltime
highs. Coming up this hour, Lisa Shannon
and Morgan Stanley as AI disruption
shakes markets. George Pollock of
Signnum as contradicting views on jobs
numbers begin to emerge in Washington.
And the former St. Lewis Fed President
Jim Bullard on the central bank's
uncertain future. We begin this hour
with stocks ticking higher following a
wealth management selloff sparked by a
new AI tool. Lisa Shannon of Morgan
Stanley writing, "With much ink spilled
on equity volatility, transparency and
composition matter in this moment. With
selectivity key for fixed income
investors." Lisa joins us now for more.
Lisa, good morning. Good to see you.
>> It's great to see you.
>> Let's start with small caps. Are you
fading that trade? Is it time to get
out?
>> We have 100% uh faded the small cap
trade. Um you know our sense is that
there was a lot of enthusiasm you know
premised on this idea that we're going
to get this big reaceleration in the
economy but what people forget is that
the small cap cohort is really really
low quality at this point. We've gone
through, you know, literally a decade of
private equity picking off uh the most
durable leverable business models and
what's left in the public market, you
know, literally 43% of the Russell 2000
is unprofitable. 8% of the Russell 3000
is unprofitable. These are companies
that are unprofitable against a backdrop
where US nominal GDP growth has been
over 5%. I mean, we've had a wind at
most companies backs between inflation
and pricing power and real growth. And
if these guys can't be making money in
that environment, my goodness, are they
going to if the economy slows, God, God
forbid, uh, are they going to be able to
make money? So, we think that this was
definitely a knee-jerk playbook trade.
You know, hey, we're going to get
stimulus, we're getting reaceleration,
pile into small caps. I think it's going
to be really hard when it when when it
comes to show me the money in the
earning season for these guys to to meet
and beat.
>> So if the bias is large cap over small
cap, where's the leadership coming from
in large cap?
>> Uh so you know we think we're going to
go back to a high quality large cap uh
trade that means in fact some of the mag
seven, right? I think we've seen some of
that selling off or that dispersion
trade a little bit overdone. So there's
probably some of those guys that you can
start picking some of the software trade
is probably overdone. Uh we're we're
continuing to buy. We loved the selloff
in financials yesterday because
financials is our number one high
conviction sector. Um so we're you know
piling into that silly selloff yesterday
and we genuinely think it's silly. Um uh
we like industrials, we like energy, we
liked healthcare. So uh you know we
think it's a stock pickers market. So
you got to be selective. But the the
idea is rotating back to quality
>> just in case people believe there's a
wealth management bias here.
>> Yes.
>> What made it silly?
>> So I think if you take a step back while
there is no doubt there are going to be
disruptive technologies, disruptive
applications. I think that there is a
material misunderstanding about a way
the way a lot of these businesses work.
Let's take software right so I don't
have to speak my own book. In software,
one of the key things that a lot of
these enterprise software companies have
been able to do is capture data. They
own the data uh and they've owned
cleaning up data uh and and uh unifying
it across the enterprise. No matter how
good of a Gen AI tool you have, it is
premised on using and learning your
data. And so I I think that the end game
here is going to be a lot more nuanced
than this, you know, let's let's rotate
and throw the baby out with the
bathwater uh with these big sector
moves.
>> The problem for an investor and the
problem for me trying to understand this
is on one side of the ledger, you have
the potential disruption that could
eradicate certain business models but
also benefit some of the highquality
names that you're talking about. This is
the promise that's getting priced into
some of the valuations. So on one hand
either those are priced too high or the
disruption is perhaps a bit more real
than we had expected. Which is it? So I
think it's a little bit of both and I
know that that's a very unsatisfying
answer but this we are going back to a
market where fundamental analysis where
that real hard work of stock picking of
discriminating
uh where you know this is an environment
where we think quite frankly some of the
hedge fund managers are going to be able
to thrive after a decade of them kind of
you know barely meeting fixed income
type returns right so uh it it it's all
about picking quality quality,
selectivity, doing your homework.
>> A lot of people have talked about
quality as gold. People have talked
about quality as precious metals and
that has been one of the key uh sort of
safe haven assets out there. You are
starting to cast some doubt on that
particular trade. Why?
>> So, I'm not so much casting doubt on the
gold trade. I'm casting a lot of doubt
on the silver trade, a lot of doubt on
the Bitcoin trade. Um so gold is a very
interest has a very interesting story
associated with it. Obviously the first
is around global dellarization central
banks diversifying but the other piece
of the story that I don't know is is
well syndicated or quite frankly even
well believed uh is that ultimately non
dollar stable coin issuers right are
beginning to build collateral to issue
non-dollar stable coins. So the largest
the second largest buyer uh of gold last
year was tether. Second largest buyer of
gold. Uh and they are doing that for a
reason because they know that they are
going to have opportunities to
collateralize in non-doll stable coin
and that's a way to give their uh their
stable coins legitimacy. So I think that
there's a real story around gold that is
very very legitimate. Silver, I think,
has been a truly kind of speculative.
Yes, you had a supply demand, you know,
divot there. Um, but I think it's
excessive relative to gold. Um, and so
we'd be selling silver and Bitcoin.
We've been very clear it's a speculative
liquiditydriven
uh asset class. When the global
liquidity is building, you know, it's
something that potentially you can
trade. Uh but increasingly you know we
have done work about across the lifetime
of Bitcoin and have seen this seasonal
pattern that it goes through these
crypto winters where you get these big
bare market sell-offs. Uh and we think
we're in one of those big bare market
sell-offs. So we'd be avoiding Bitcoin
for right now.
>> Let's stay on gold.
>> Yes.
>> Given the forces behind it that you
described, what role does that kind of
thing have in a portfolio? So what's
been spectacular is that gold has been
one of the few things that has
diversified stocks. Gold's correlation
with traditional things, right, like
real assets or the US dollar or
inflation break evens is completely
broken. But what it has done a really
good job at is diversifying stocks.
>> Because if I look at the charts, the
push back would be just eyeballing the
thing. They kind of look the same.
Stocks are up and gold's up
>> and it's correlated with risk. it it
that is true but on the days that stocks
have been down gold has done a better
job than long duration treasuries
>> what role do treasuries have now
>> so it's that's a great question I think
it's really about coupon clipping right
now I think it's going to be very hard
to use long duration and and use TLT for
example to hedge your stock uh as a
diversifier uh I think this is about
kind of sitting in the belly of the
curve uh you know between kind you know,
four and sevenyear duration and just
clipping the coupon and saying, "Yep,
we've got a steep curve down on the
front end, up on the back end. I'm going
to try to stay stable here and just
collect, you know, four or five%."
>> Torson Slock of Apollo just published.
I'm sure you saw the note drop into the
inbox. Bond yield should be higher
because he is super bullish this
economy.
>> He's the one who's talking about
potential rate cuts or discussions of
rate hikes, excuse me, rate hikes. Thank
you for correcting me. uh later this
year because of how strong the economy
is. I'm just sitting here thinking
you've got asset classes that are being
financialized that have never been uh
financialized before. I'm thinking about
gold in order to avoid using treasuries
as a classic haven trade. So you could
say whatever you want about whether
treasuries will act that way, but there
is an entire industry trying to
financialize things like gold, things
like Bitcoin because they want that
alternative and they're looking for
other hedges. I just wonder what that
does in terms of some of these violent
sell-offs and moves that you see in the
algorithmic trading. I wonder how much
that's part of it.
>> I saw a story about that, isn't it? In a
massive vault somewhere in a cave.
>> Yes,
>> very [laughter] interesting story. I
read that recently, too. Lisa, thank
you. Lisa Shamp of Morgan Stanley.
Equity futures on the S&P positive by a
tenth of 1%. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief is Vonyie Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Mattel shares
plunging in the pre-market. The toy
maker reporting disappointing results
for the holiday season. The maker of
Barbie and Hot Wheels also forecasting
fullear guidance that fell short of Wall
Street estimates.
Sax is closing more than 10% of its
fullpriced stores across the United
States. It's part of the company's
effort to come back from bankruptcy as a
smaller, more profitable [music]
department store. The stores closing
include those in New York in sorry New
Jersey and Philadelphia which have been
mostly unprofitable.
President Donald Trump is weighing
quitting the USMCA trade pact. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, the
president has asked aids why he
shouldn't withdraw from the agreement,
but hasn't signaled his final decision.
The trade pact faces a mandatory review
before a possible extension on July 1st.
[music] And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John,
>> hey Vonyie, thank you. Just to clarify,
Tether stores that in a Cold War era
nuclear bunker in Switzerland.
>> So, did you read that story recently?
It's fascinating to try to
>> Yeah, I think that we should undisclosed
location. I believe
>> I think that we we won't disclose it.
We'll take surveillance on the road.
We'll go to the vault. We'll say, you
know, we'll be in the the nuclear era
bunker.
>> Keep the secret.
>> We'll keep the secret and we'll just sit
there with the gold.
>> Did we ever do the tour at Fortnox? Cuz
that was meant to happen, too.
>> We would like to do that.
>> That never happened.
>> Outstanding.
>> Up next on the program, pre-loading
payrolls.
>> I've cut hundreds of thousands of jobs.
And we still have good employment
numbers. But if I want to have the
greatest employment numbers you've ever
seen, all I have to do is say I'm going
to hire half a million people. Up next
on the program, George Pollock of
Signnum live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[music] The delay jobs report 1 hour and
15 minutes away. The estimates the range
pretty wide at the top end 135 and the
low end -10 [music] city at the top end
at 135. The median in our survey here at
Bloomberg about 65K. Going into that
report, equities [music] look like this
on the S&P 500. The NASDAQ the Russell
up by a tenth of 1% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ up by 0.2. If you turn to the
bond market, yields pinned to the floor
this week off the back of weaker than
expected [music] economic data. lows of
the year at 413 around those levels on a
10-year maturity at the [music] moment
and then this note drops from Torson
Slock of Apollo 10-year bond yields
should be higher.
>> He looks at how much he expects [music]
the economy to accelerate and he's in
the camp of seeing some of the uh one
big beautiful bill tax refunds really
driving consumer spending [music] as
well as some of this capex. Meanwhile,
other people are saying, "Hold on a
second. Real people are struggling and
you're not seeing that in [music] the
numbers." Which is the reason why even
groups seeing 135,000 at the highest
end. They are so bearish on the economy.
You wouldn't know it that the headline
numbers aren't necessarily going to
reveal the underlying pain. So, you have
these two bipolar stories. Put them
together, you get some nice averages,
but ultimately it is a lot more buy for
>> huge division beneath the surface
without a doubt. You mentioned City.
Andrew Hornhorse looking for another 75
basis points. Three cuts [music] from
this Federal Reserve. And this event is
this morning. Preloading payrolls.
>> They talk about uh construction jobs are
way up, right? Well, they're up because
they're building all these factories all
over the country. Our employment numbers
are very good. But remember, we have to
make America great again, right? You
don't do that by hiring all federal
workers. We want [music] them to be in
the private sector. I've cut hundreds of
thousands of jobs, and we still have
good employment numbers. But if I want
to have the greatest employment numbers
you've ever seen, all I have to do is
say I'm going to hire half a million
people.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
President Trump touting US employment
data ahead of the delayed January jobs
report. The president's rosy outlook
coming in stark contrast to a warning
from the NEC director Kevin Hasset
saying quote one shouldn't panic if you
see a sequence of numbers that are lower
than you are used to. Bloomber's Tyler
Kendall joins us now for more. Tyler,
don't panic but is never a great way of
starting a sentence.
No, it's not, John. And it does seem
like there are some conflicting views
out of the White House as top
administration officials appear to be
lowering the bar ahead of today's
report. But President Trump has only
raised the bar when it ultimately comes
to growth. And it's not just the NEC
director Kevin Hasset. We also heard
from senior trade counselor Peter Navaro
yesterday who in an interview said that
quote, "We should revise our
expectations down significantly for
today." Now, we know there are of course
a range of factors, but I'll give you
the White House's view going into this
report is that they have been arguing
that potential low hiring number today
doesn't necessarily paint the full
picture when it comes to the labor
market as they talk about a decline in
population growth and also the
president's deportation policies.
Meanwhile, if you hear President Trump
in recent days when he's talking about
the economy, he seems to be really
focused on an expansion fueled by other
things like capex spending, the AI boom
efficiencies, also onshoring
manufacturing. You heard him talking
about construction jobs in that
interview there. So, a range of factors
that the White House and President Trump
seem to be looking at when it comes to
this. But ultimately, no matter what
happens today, this is an administration
that is under pressure from American
voters when it comes to the economy and
we head into the midterm elections. In
fact, I'll point you to a new poll out
from Gallup just this week that shows
nearly 50% of Americans have negative
views when it comes to the labor market.
And John, I'll also quickly mention,
keep in mind this has been definitely a
soft spot for President Trump when it
comes to his views of this jobs data. Uh
today's report will be the first uh
report since he named his new head of
the BLS. Brett Matsumoto hasn't been
confirmed yet, but his nomination about
two weeks ago came after months of that
spot remaining unfilled.
>> Tle Kendall with the latest in
Washington. And just to be very clear
here, director Hasset isn't rock. There
are supply side factors at work that
most people, in fact, I would say all
people that come on this program
endorse. It's just to what extent. And
can you escape what's happening with the
unemployment rate which is a decent
measure of slack and is higher now than
it was 12 months ago?
>> It's the reason why you point to the
employment cost index and rightly so.
The idea that wages really tell you
whether there's heat in the economy in
terms of the labor market or not. And
ultimately what you're seeing is the
employment cost index going down. In
other words, how much people's pay is
increasing is slowing down. This doesn't
speak to a robust labor market and it
speaks to a demand side uh issue, not
just a supply side issue. combined with
massive sentiment issues, the idea that
people's attitudes towards the labor
market have really soured, the idea that
things aren't as plentiful as they used
to be when they look for jobs. And is
that starting to infect and constrain
spending on the consumer's behalf coming
into the new year? You certainly saw
that in the retail sales number. And I
have to say, you know, I'll reveal a
bias. Bullish the US economy. We all
should be. I don't want that to be the
story for the year ahead. We want to see
people feel confident about their
prospects to get a job, to spend money.
But that's soured in the last couple of
weeks off the back of the data we've
seen.
>> Yeah, I saw you ordering Dubai chocolate
in bulk because you wanted to try the
phone commercial break clearly because
you are bullish on things like that that
are sold at places like Five Below,
which is actually doing extremely well
at the moment.
>> Exactly. They do with some management
shifts as well. But look, you take a
step back. You're absolutely correct.
And this is a reason why retail sales
spooked a lot of people. This is the
reason why you pair that with defaults
creeping higher. Not a five alarm fire,
not oh my god, the world is falling. But
this does signify some weakness that
people haven't priced in.
>> George Pollock of Signnum joins us now
for more. George, the president and the
White House, the Republican party's got
a problem. You can see it in the
polling. Do they have enough time to
turn the story around?
>> I don't think they have enough time to
turn the story around. What they I think
they need to be able to do is reframe
the story between now and November and
basically say we are making a large bet
on reshaping the US economy for the 21st
century. be it onshoring manufacturing
being a large bet on nuclear energy and
saying we're not just focusing on the
next 12 months we're focusing on the
next 20 years and I think for the
president he has to focus on that
message the idea that I'm not just doing
this the short-term policies I'm doing
long-term policies and in the long run
this will be what's better for you
because as you guys were saying in the
short term there's not much for them to
do
>> George it seems like the messaging has
really consolidated around one theme and
John was laying it out that ultimately
the reason why the jobs numbers are a
lot lower is because of less immigration
and the idea that you need fewer jobs to
keep a balance to the employment market.
Based on just polls and uh your
research, how much is that actually
breaking through to the voter
population?
>> I don't think it's breaking through
whatsoever to the voting population. All
they care about is that when they look
at the job market, when their kids look
at the job market when graduating from
college, that they're struggling or
they're perceived to be struggling to
find jobs. I think for this
administration, the issue is as much and
it's kind of like the Biden
administration. As much as they want to
say, "Look, this is happening for a
reason. It's all good." When the when
the voters look outside their windows
and look at the kids, look at the people
around them, all they see is economic
weakness.
>> You know, I wonder if we're framing this
uh in the wrong way. I mean,
politically, it's framed as whoever's in
the White House is it's their fault. At
the same time, if we talk to economists,
we talk to a lot of structural changes,
a lot of entrenched issues that have
really hampered some level of hiring.
How much is this something that can be
addressed with rate cuts, that can be
addressed with fiscal, and how much is
this something that needs to be balanced
out when we really understand the
technology?
>> I think you you've hit the problem spot
on though where it's you're right, we
cannot only blame the White House, you
have to you have to look at economic
factors and other contributing factors,
but the president is the one who built
himself into this box where he blamed
President Biden and in the past he's
blamed President Obama for weak job
numbers. So now he's holding the bag of
weak job numbers and he can't just say
like President Biden and President Obama
did that well this is structural. This
is why it's happening. He's built
himself this he's put himself into a box
canyon and he can't really get out of
it.
>> I've got a really welcome counterpoint
to all of this. Just dropped in my
inbox. It's from Bank of America and
Bank of America by the way have already
said fade any of the weakness that you
see in consumer spending. This is based
on their internal data in their consumer
checkpoint report. Consumer spending
showed solid resilience in January. So,
let's park December, January, with total
card spending rising 2.6%
year-over-year, the strongest paced in
nearly two years.
>> And this goes with what we heard from
Brian Moyahan yesterday. Uh Brian
Moyahan saying that uh they're investing
more that they see consumers spending 5%
more in January uh than years earlier.
So, really expressing that confidence
that they're seeing in that credit card
data that you're talking about. So, just
how weak are things? Again, this goes to
the roarshock test of 2026. When you see
that data, when you see the dots, what
is it that you see?
>> Look, the bifocation is what we still
see. So, you can have great aggregate
levels. The average level of spending,
fantastic. You see that in the data
beneath the surface and Bank of America
is saying it g income based divergence
in spending and wage growth persists.
We're concerned that a K-shap is opening
up between higher inome households and
middle inome households alongside the
existing gap with lower inome
households. So, it's not for us to sit
here and say there aren't any problems,
that what people are saying about how
they feel about the economy isn't real.
You're seeing that in the data. It's
just the average numbers right now are
still pretty decent.
>> The key here in middle income is
important. The idea that what it means
to be low income has really shifted
because a lot of people who are caught
in the $200,000 income or $250,000
income are struggling to support a
household of four, five, six because of
some of the uh costs that you have. I'm
thinking of that essay that was really
fascinating laying out what does it mean
to be poor in this current environment.
And I think that's shifting and that's
what they're pointing to. Yale just told
you that if you earn $200,000 a year,
you can't afford to send your child to
our university. They basically just told
you that $200,000 a year is not enough
now to send your child to college.
That's a problem.
>> Especially if college costs are not
going down. You're seeing $70 to $90,000
a year. Especially if essentially you're
not seeing wages increase at a faster
pace and we don't have an employment
picture. I mean, this is really the
structural challenge that we face. So
the spending numbers are decent but the
upper income cohort is doing more and
more of the heavy lifting and [music]
that gap is opening up and the problems
are starting to migrate upwards. That's
an issue. Hey George, it's going to
catch up. Thank you sir. George Pollock
there at Signnum [music] Big Chad of
Deutsche Bank up next.
Jobs number 60 minutes away. Equities
doing okay. up a tenth of 1% a little
bit softer in yesterday's [music]
session but no real drama some drama in
wealth management firms we'll talk more
about that later on the NASDAQ 100 up by
0.15 on the Russell up by 02 just
moments ago [music]
Morgan Stanley's Lisa Shallop making a
case to get out of small caps really
pushing [music] back against the case
for moving away from large cap equity
>> the number one case that she made is who
are these companies that haven't made it
to either large cap uh capacity or be
moved on ultimately they are pretty low
quality and she's said something like
almost half of them are unprofitable. So
if you have some sort of rollover in the
economy there's these are the most
susceptible and they're getting bit up
because people view them in the same
light as they used to which is higher
quality not necessarily the drags.
>> Blinkish of Deutsche Bank is going to
weigh in on the drags if we can call it
that [laughter] just a moment.
>> Well I mean that's sort of
>> sure how people feel about that. Okay
>> I don't think that's fair.
>> Switch on the board and get to the bond
market. In the bond market right now
yields are lower again. 413 around the
lows of the year. We're down [music] a
basis point on a 10-year maturity and
the data got us here. Plus some comments
from Kevin Hasset, the director of the
NEC suggesting that maybe that number
today might be smaller than anticipated.
>> Yeah, expect smaller payrolls numbers
coming out because of the immigration
backdrop etc. [music] That claim was
repeated or that type of tone is
repeated by other advisers to the
president and then the White House came
out and said they hadn't seen the report
ahead of time. This isn't a tell. And
yet the market's going, "Yeah, yeah,
yeah. We we believe you and it seems
like people are keeping this trade on.
Look, we are pricing [music] in more
rate cuts potentially even in April
which is would be the last month that
[music] Jay Pal will be the chair of the
Federal Reserve ostensibly and
potentially he could even initiate
another rate cut in his tenure.
>> Jolts, jobless claims, challenger job
cuts, retail sales data hasn't [music]
been great. ISM is the offset to all of
that. The ISM manufacturing number was
actually pretty brilliant. ISM services
[music] was middle of the road. Okay.
Are we going to see more of the ISM or
more of the others?
>> Maybe both. And this is sort of the key
because even the ISM figure, if you
looked at the employment [music]
component, it came in uh below
expansionary territories, we still
haven't seen the employment component
pick up even in [music] one of the
better areas. So, can we see that boom
without the employment? And I think that
that is the underlying question.
>> So, jobs data about 60 minutes away, the
opening bell about 2 hours away with
your morning movers. Yahara has more.
Hey, Yhara.
>> Hi, John. We start with Craft Hind
shares are falling 6% in the pre-market
after the company said just moments ago
it is pausing its [music] plan to split
into two companies. Remember back in
September Craftine said it would split
into two firms. One focused on its fast
growing condiments and sauces. The other
on slower growing products like Oscar
Meyer. But now the new CEO says he wants
to focus on returning the company to
profitable growth before [music] any
split takes place. Meanwhile, moving on
to Cloudflare. Those shares are rising
nearly 14% [music] in the pre-market uh
after the company not only beat
expectations, it also raised its revenue
forecast. This is a company that [music]
had got that got dragged down amid last
week's software selloff. But Cloudflare
is not just [music] software, it also
provides the infrastructure to run
secure systems. And the CEO says they're
shipping cap capabilities [music] at an
unmatched pace. And we end on Maderna
shares. They are falling nearly 10% in
the pre-market. On news that the FDA
refused to review its mRNA flu vac
vaccine, the latest sign of tougher
oversightes on vaccines by the Trump
administration. Maderna [music] says it
wasn't about safety or whether the shot
worked, but how the study was conducted.
So they are seeking an urgent meeting
with the FDA. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yihara in the next hour. On
our radar this morning, increasing
concerns about AI disruption hitting
wealth management firms. the release of
a tax strategy tool by the littleknown
startup ultruist sending shares of
Charles swap. Raymond James and LPL
Financial tumbling in Tuesday's trade.
Elsewhere, the president discussing the
prospect of leaving the USMCA trade
agreement. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the president is privately
asking aid about the move. The trade
pack is due for a mandatory review
before a possible extension on July 1.
And finally, the president also
continuing his push for the Federal
Reserve to cut interest rates.
interest rate should be lower. You know,
every point is $600 billion. Think of
that. $600 billion. All he has to do, if
we went down two points, we don't have a
deficit anymore.
>> If only it was that simple. The
president previously claiming his Fed
share pick, Kevin Walsh, can grow the
economy by 15% if he quote does the job
he's capable of. And based on the data
I've just seen, middle- inome workers
would agree with the president because
they would like a rate cut and fast. I
want to go back to that Bank of America
consumer checkpoint data that I
mentioned just moments ago. Consumer
spending based on the internal data from
Bank of America doing quite nicely in
the month of January with total card
spending rising 2.6% year-over-year. So
that's the good the welcome news.
Beneath the surface though, this is what
they have to say. Incomebased divergence
in spending and wage growth persist and
we're concerned about a Kshape opening
up between higher inome households and
middle inome households. So, not just
the top and the bottom, but the middle.
And that's an issue. And they offer
these two stats, Lisa. So, let's go
through them. The gap in spending growth
between higher income and middle income
and lower income households, the largest
since mid2022.
And the wage growth gap between higher
and middle income is largest in nearly
five years. That is a data point worthy
of attention.
>> Yeah. And this is a reason why the
sentiment surveys are not cohering with
what we're seeing in the averages
because the averages smooth out some of
this dispersion and make it look better
than a lot of people feel that it is,
especially if they're not in the upper
echelons of income earnings. As you look
at this and you say, okay, does this
scream for a rate cut? What kind of
economic remedy would this actually
require? And the answer is not clear
because people who are in the lower
income and the middle income, if you
think about it, the wage growth gap is
also very high, which means that they
are not seeing their pay being raised as
quickly. So if you see inflation kick
back up to a significant degree, guess
who gets taxed the most as a result of
it? It's these individuals. So if you
cut rates too much and you do get some
sort of reignition of inflation, they
get penalized. If you don't cut rates
and you don't get an acceleration in the
economy, they get penalized. So exactly
how are you going to remedy this
situation?
>> They're getting squeezed. It's very
difficult to do just that. Let's turn to
the equity market and push this story
through it. So the rotation out of mega
cap tech stocks continues. Binky charter
at Deutsche Bank is writing this. Sector
funds excluding tech have seen a record
$62 billion in inflows in the first five
weeks of the year. That's more than they
saw in all of 2025. Binky joins us now
for more. Binky, good morning. Good to
see you.
>> Good morning.
>> You track the data, you look at the
flows. Do you see this as sustainable or
just a knee-jerk trade to start the
year? An itch to rotate? So what I would
say is basically I think you got to put
it in a little bit of context. So there
was a fundamental driver that began the
rotation and that was really what we got
from thirdarter earnings which just as a
reminder began to get reported in the
middle of October and and and what you
saw is you know a very very clear sign
basically of a broadening in earnings
growth and I would emphasize that if you
break it up into two and you're looking
at mega cap growth in tech and everybody
else it was not really at the expense of
meggaap growth in tech it was just
really a pickup basic basically in uh
growth for for everybody else that you
know we've been waiting for for some
time basically simple you know metrics
would be in the second quarter we had
only two we had very respectable S&P 500
earnings growth so you know to the point
that uh the averages can mislead S&P 500
earnings growth was 9% in the second
quarter of last year but there were only
two sectors with positive growth that
broadened to uh six in the third quarter
a and and and for the fourth quarter it
looks like we are on track for eight
sectors with positive growth. So there
is a fundamental driver of the rotation
that began. Um and and then of course
you know as you fast forward to uh today
there are concerns about basically uh AI
disruption and so you're getting the
negatives here the positives here and so
you know it sort of exacerbated
basically uh the speed uh of the
rotation. Today you know we are more
cyclally vulnerable because we have much
greater cyclical exposure. So uh uh
payrolls is uh important I would say uh
on pay perils um you know it's it's not
so concerned really about the layoffs
and firing that we hear about all the
time. It's really an issue about the the
hiring rate. Uh the hiring rate is at
you know at COVID lows. It's actually
not very far above where we were at the
lows in the global financial crisis. Um
and and so you know you have to think
about basically what is the environment
that corporates face. U the hiring rate
did tick up late last year after I'm
sorry the year before after the
election. Uh and and and then you know
drop back down post liberation day and
hasn't really recovered from there.
>> There's a lot to unpack in there. I want
to get into the idea that this market is
more vulnerable to a downshift in the
cycle because it is more heavily exposed
to the cyclicals. I just wonder what's
been priced in. This is incredibly
financialized market. This is incredibly
uh driven by technicals right now as
well. How much have people priced in a
roaring economy of tors and slack versus
some of the expectations that have come
through based on the data points that
we've gotten over the past couple of
days?
>> Yeah, I I would look at that, you know,
as we always do, which is basically
through the lens of equity positioning
and I would say fundamentals-based
investors. We call them discretionary
investors. their positioning is you know
teensy little bit above neutral. So I
would say no real concern there. Uh I
would say you know at uh current
absolute and relative prices. Uh if you
look at it again through the lens of
positioning what you know is getting
priced in for mega cap growth in tech is
a big uh down move basically in earnings
estimates. While the facts are that
earnings estimates for them are actually
going up including for software for this
year for example a a for everybody else
it's kind of in line. Yes. I mean they
are sort of positioned for a slowing in
upward revisions to estimates but it's
it's a very modest amount so I wouldn't
make too much.
>> What have you been advocating for with
clients with regards to software? You
mentioned that cohort of names that got
hammered last week. What have you been
saying? or I mean our call we do it at
the sector level so it's for all of mega
cap growth in tech we've been neutral
for a while we basically remain neutral
uh I I'd say you know the tactical case
for a continued bounce from here I is is
pretty strong I would say I mean if you
look at relative valuations you look at
relative positioning positioning in
cyclicals is uh today a a comparable to
the positioning in mega cap growth in
tech one is growing at close to 30%
one's growing at close to 6 and a.5%. Uh
>> this to me really screams of you going
into some of the big tech names that
you've gotten beaten up, but also the
software stocks as you're talking about
that Shopify came out with revenues,
fourth quarter revenues that beat and
this is one of the stocks that was
really beaten up, hammered as a result
of some of the software draw down. Right
now you're seeing those shares up some
12 and a half% in pre-market trading. I
mean absolutely surging as a result of
what we have seen. I'm just wondering
how much you think this is going to be
one of the biggest outperformers and
driving the market up as people reassess
what that threat is coming from some of
these AI tools.
>> Yeah, I I I I mean, you know, it's it's
a threat that you cannot disprove. Uh
it's a threat that takes many many years
to basically play out. Uh so I would
argue from a tactical point of view,
it's just way overdone. Uh
>> Binky, it's good to see you. It always
is. Thank you, sir.
>> Thank you.
>> Binky Charter at Deutsche Bank there.
bullish on this equity market. Futures
doing okay up by another tenth of 1%
with an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Ronnie
Quinn. Hey, Ronnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Alphabet raising
almost $ 32 billion in debt in less than
a day, underscoring the massive funding
race among tech giants investing in AI.
The company tapping the sterling and
Swiss Frank markets with record setting
corporate bond sales. Alphabet says its
capital spending this year could climb
to as much as $185 billion.
Four shares rising in the pre-market.
The automaker saying it expects its
profit [music] to jump in 2026 despite a
surprise $900 million tariff bill at the
end of last year. The company plans to
increase capital spending to as much as
$10.5 [music] billion.
Nickel futures jumping after the world's
largest mine [music] in Indonesia was
told to slash output. sources telling us
here at Bloomberg authorities telling PT
Waya Bay nickel to cut or production by
over 70% compared to last year.
Indonesia is looking to boost global
prices of the country's [music] biggest
export commodity. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next on the program, awaiting
a washled fed.
>> Kevin Worsh I've known for a dozen
years. he's accomplished. He's respected
and he's been critical that the Fed has
not really anchored its policy in in
policy rules.
>> We'll get into that in just a moment.
And look ahead to the payrolls report 50
minutes away [music] with the former St.
Louis Fed President Jim Bolard from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
So this is how this morning is set up.
Equities slightly positive by a tenth of
1% on [music] the S&P. The data just
around the corner. Let's call it 44
minutes away. The payrolls report, the
delayed payrolls report from January.
Remember the estimate, the median in our
survey about 65,000. In the bond market,
yields just off the lowest levels of the
year at 413 on 10 down about a basis
point on a 10-year maturity. Just about
and change the front end of the curve at
345 had a repricing at [music] the very
front end of the curve off the back of
this weaker than expected data which
makes us vulnerable of course to [music]
better than expected data in about 40
minutes. So look out for that. want to
get you up to speed as well on some
headlines that's coming from an
interview with the Ukrainian leader,
President Zilinski, saying a deal on
territory is in focus for the next round
of talks with the US [music] and saying
that Ukraine is ready to meet in the
United States next Tuesday or Wednesday
and [music] it's unclear if Russia
agrees to meet.
>> Yeah, and this is the ongoing
negotiation, a real question of whether
they can get some sort of peace deal.
We'll get more details as this comes
out. Uh what Zilinsky said in a phone
interview in Kiev on Tuesday, none of
the sides is keen on the idea of the
free e economic zone. Neither the
[music] Russians nor us. We have
different views on it and agreements
were as follows. Let's come back with
the vision of what it may look like for
the next meeting. So that potentially is
what's on the table.
>> Let's see if we can make some progress
in the next week or so. Let's turn it
back to the data and of course to the
Federal Reserve under surveillance this
morning awaiting a Walsh Fed.
>> Kevin Walsh I've known for [music] a
dozen uh years. He's accomplished, he's
respected, and he's been critical that
the Fed has not really anchored its
policy in in policy [music] rules. Kevin
Worsh will have to work with the
committee and will have to bring the
committee along with him if he wants to
make the changes that he says he wants
to make. The chair has the power of
persuasion, but at the end of the day,
he or she only has one vote.
>> So, here's the [music] latest this
morning. Traders weighing the future of
monetary policy under a Federal Reserve
chaired by Kevin Walsh. The former St.
Lewis Fed President Jim Bullard joins us
now for more to talk about that and of
course the payrolls report just around
the corner. Jim, welcome back to the
program. Sir, a washled Federal Reserve.
What changes should we be anticipating?
>> Uh [clears throat] I know Kevin Walsh uh
well I I think he'll do a good job. Uh
he has been a critic of uh balance sheet
policy.
Uh for those that don't recall uh in in
2010 he was an opponent of the second
round of quantitative easing and uh
actually the day after the vote he put
out a uh a oped uh outlining his
objections and and about six months
later he left the Fed. So he felt very
strongly about that issue. he felt that
the Fed was straying into fiscal policy.
Uh something that has been debated uh at
the FOMC ever since and uh now he'll
have a chance to bring that vision into
play.
>> So Jim, you didn't hide your feelings
about the communication architecture
coming out of the GFC, the dot plot for
instance. Is that something you'd
advocate to ultimately get rid of?
>> Uh I think it's time for a reform of the
dot plot. The committee hasn't found a
way to do that, but I think with an
incoming chair, uh, now would be a good
time to look at it. Former chair Ben
Bernani, uh, put out some suggestions
last spring and, uh, maybe those could
be the basis for a compromise on the
committee.
>> This does seem like a a pivotal point. I
mean, we're sort of at a tipping point
in the economy potentially, but there is
no real need for the Federal Reserve to
react. There's a question about later
this year if Torstson of Apollo is
correct. we do get some sort of
reaceleration, what the reaction
function will be from a worsh Federal
Reserve if we do see inflation really
remain sticky or even tick upward. Do
you have confidence based on your
understanding of how he was back in the
earlier tenure when you worked alongside
him of what his reaction function would
be?
>> Uh I think he'll be very careful and
cautious. uh he certainly does not want
to reignite inflation in the US and uh I
think he'd be very careful on that
issue. The committee has already come
down 75 basis points. Uh I think the
attitude on the committee seems to be
that now they can wait and see. Um a lot
of the news maybe not the most very most
recent news but the basic news on the
economy has been for a booming economy
in 2026. And if that's the case, uh, the
Fed doesn't probably won't see the need
to do too much more.
>> Part of the problem, Jim, and we were
just talking about this, about the
K-shaped economy based on the Bank of
America credit card data showing just
how much that K has widened, not just
with the upper class and the lower
class, the upper class and the middle
class. I'm just wondering how rate cuts
fit into that. If you have a structural
problem where you do see a number of
people being left behind in both the
employment level as well as just wage
growth, how do rate cuts target that? Do
they make it better or do they make it
worse?
>> Well, the sad truth is rate cuts
probably, you know, don't do too much
about that because that affects
everybody in the whole economy, not just
in the US, but across the world. So, uh
it's hard to talk about something that's
targeted to a specific uh group. That's
really the role of fiscal policy and
that's something Kevin Wish has
emphasized. Uh you want to make a good
monetary policy for the US and and by
extension for the rest of the world and
then let the fiscal policy makers uh you
know work their magic through the
democratic process and try to come up
with various programs to help uh certain
segments of society.
>> Jim, Governor Wallace talked about the
headline number, not just the disparity
beneath and that's a man you worked
alongside of course at the St. Lewis
Fed, I'd love your view on this
statement that he put out after he
desented to the last decision to keep
rates unchanged. The recent data, quote,
indicates to me that there is
considerable doubt about future
employment growth and suggests that a
substantial deterioration in the labor
market is a significant risk. Do you
think the Fed has done enough already to
insulate against that risk?
>> Yeah, my judgment would be that the the
committee took that argument on board.
uh they made the moves that they wanted
to make and now they want to uh hold
where they are because inflation is
still above target. Also, I think the
non-farm payrolls number is as you guys
have discussed extensively is very hard
to interpret right now because of the
change in immigration policy. It's a
sharp sharp change in immigration policy
compared to where we were. So, you might
want to look at the unemployment rate
instead. And that's always been uh a
major indicator of course for the for
the Fed, but it's only 4.4%.
So that is actually pretty close to the
natural rate of unemployment according
to most estimates for the US economy. So
you might say, well, the labor market
based on that looks, you know, looks
pretty good. We already took out some
insurance against the possible
deterioration,
uh, and we still got inflation above
target. So I think that's basically
where the committee's coming down.
>> Jim, there's a lot of discussion about
what the Fed should do and then what the
Fed will do and that's where the
politics comes into play and this
question of how much the political
overlay and the demands to get the
economy really hot. 15% growth rates
come into play. How do you see that at a
time where increasingly central banks
are political just in part due to the
fiscal overhang, the deficit that
increasingly is tied? So, you've got the
interest payments that are tied to what
the Federal Reserve does. I mean, how
realistic do you see that threat?
>> Well, it the Fed, of course, these are
political appointees on the board of
governors and uh not political
appointees at the Federal Reserve Banks.
And the art of this is to
uh pull these uh decisions a little bit
away from the day-to-day fray of
politics inside the beltway and try to
make uh decisions for the medium term in
the long run. That's been by and large
very successful over the last uh hundred
years. And so and when Congress has
looked at this in the past about
possibility of changing it one way or
another, uh they've always come to the
conclusion that they like it the way it
is. So, um, you know, I don't think we
should think of a in, you know, totally
independent, uh, Federal Reserve.
That's, you know, that would sound like
you don't have enough accountability,
but you don't want the decisions being
made directly by the, you know, the
banking committees or the financial
services committee or inside the White
House. So, uh, the art is to get this a
little bit away from the day-to-day
politics. And I think that's the way
it's going to stay. uh because Congress
has looked at this many many times and
they've they've come to the conclusion
that they like it the way it is.
>> Hey Jim, it's good to see you as always.
Thank you sir. The former St. Louis Fed
President Jim Bard weighing in on the
Federal Reserve future leadership and
the jobs report just around the corner
35 minutes away. You've got headline
numbers that matter to market and the
disparity beneath which really matter to
the electorate and ultimately will
matter to the future of the politicians
in office right now. The wage growth gap
between higher and middle income is the
largest in nearly 5 years. That data
coming from Bank of America. The gap in
spending growth between higher income
and middle income and lower income
households, the largest since mid 2022.
>> This belies some of the averages and
speaks to the consumer sentiment surveys
that run in contrast to the earnings and
the market performance.
>> The headline data card spending up 2.6%
still looks pretty good.
>> Everything looks rosy.
>> The details still problematic. Coming up
on the program, we'll catch up with the
Charles SWAB president and CEO Rick
Worster and a whole lot more. The third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance [music]
just around the corner.
>> This is not an economy that requires a
significant amount [music] of job growth
behind it.
>> Jobs is a challenge as I think wage
growth will be a challenge. We're not
concerned we're going to see a spike in
the unemployment rate.
>> The labor market is softer than what
might have appeared up till now.
>> I don't know if the market's ready for
seeing a [music] negative print.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
[music] and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and the jobs report is 30 minutes away.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 positive
by about a tenth of 1%. Likewise on the
NASDAQ. Bond yields very close to the
lows of the year on a 10-year. We're
down another basis point down every
single day this week so far. 41328
is where we [music] are on a 10-year
maturity. 30 minutes away. The jobs
report delayed of course about a week.
The payrolls report and the estimate
we're looking for the median estimate in
our survey [music] about 65K.
>> Yeah. And a 4.4% unemployment rate which
would be holding steady from the prior
read. This wouldn't be a terrible
reading compared to what we've seen from
Stephen Englander talking about negative
10,000 uh jobs and a potential downward
revision to the household survey that
also comes out today. A real question is
how offsides will this market [music] be
to either a bad print or now a good
print based on how much bad news has
already been priced in the past couple
of trading.
>> We've discussed it extensively
throughout this morning that this market
is now more sensitive to incoming
economic data in a way that it wasn't in
the previous 12 months [music] given the
shift in leadership. Last year it's big
tech, big tech and those stock stories
immune to the payrolls data. This year
it's about the cyclical parts of the
market and small caps. You need the
economy [music] to perform it well to
justify that rotation.
>> Yeah, make payroll's numbers great.
Again, that's sort of where we're at.
Except there's a little bit of a
problem, which is [music] how do we
understand those data? How do we
understand exactly what we are seeing in
the underlying economy as we get data
points like the one of the Bank of
America that show huge dispersion in
wage growth, huge dispersion in job
opportunity, huge dispersion [music] in
spending capabilities. And so you look
at the average and you say, what do I do
with that? And that's the reason why
people are saying be a stock picker and
take a look at which companies are
[music] benefiting and which are not.
You're going to see the market trade the
headline and the politicians suffer from
the disparity and they're going to
introduce the remedies [music] that
actually might make it a problem for
Wall Street. And that was the early
signs that we started to see [music] at
the start of this year when the
president came out and start talking
about interest rate caps and those kind
of things. Gone away a little bit now,
[music] but no doubt we'll be back on
the table the closer we get to the
midterms.
>> Yeah. And then there's of course the big
question of how much of a constraint
does this put on some of the electricity
usage of the [music] big tech players
considering that electricity costs are
going up. This is a reason why policy
volatility is named as one of the top
risks for this year according [music] to
a recent JP Morgan survey because
ultimately this disparity gets closed
through fiscal response and that means
politics and that means this is the
reason [music] why we pay attention to
every truth and every policy proposal
coming out of
>> the surveys do bug [music] me sometimes
though you know when it's like their top
risk is uncertainty
>> like they're like uncertainty is my top
risk that's what I'm worried about I'm
worried about uncertainty
>> yeah my top risk is me I don't know you
You know what I mean?
>> It's sort of outsourcing it.
>> Like every other year you had a fortune
teller who told you everything was going
to be okay, but this year you're worried
about uncertainty.
>> This year it's a black swan. Literally,
it is a black swan that could come to my
address. [music]
>> Big hour coming up. Charles Schwab CEO
Rick Worster joins us as AI fears send
wealth manager stocks falling. Well,
let's all catch up with the US Interior
Secretary Doug Bergam as the country
prepares for major changes to climate
policy and Mike Gap of Morgan Stanley
reacting to the payrolls report. We
begin this hour following a tough
session for wealth management stocks as
a littleknown tech startup Ultruist
unveiled a new tool aimed at creating
tax planning strategies sparking a
sell-off across the industry. We're
joined now by one of the companies under
the spotlight in the last 24 hours, the
president and CEO of Charles Swab, Rick
Worester joins us now for more. Rick,
welcome to the program. I just want you,
if you can, to take us behind the scenes
when you see your stock falling five,
six, seven percent. And you're sitting
there looking at the Bloomberg terminal,
Bloomberg.com, wherever you look, I hope
you go there, and you say to your team,
why are the stocks falling? What's
happening to our name, Rick, how did you
respond just yesterday with the
management team?
>> Well, I did look on my Bloomberg
tournament. I've been a user for a long
time, and so trying to understand what
was happening. You know, for us, AI is a
real accelerant. So, it was puzzling to
see our stock sell off related to AI
because we're benefiting it from it in
multiple ways and bringing it to our
clients to help them in their financial
lives. And we think we're best
positioned in the financial services
industry to help clients with AI because
of our size, our scale, our the depth of
our relationships and all the data we
have, which is a key ingredient to uh to
winning an AI. And I'll share an
example. You know, last week we brought
the best of people and technology to our
clients. We had a a family come in that
had a complex trust. They wanted to have
a discussion with their children about
what that trust meant, how it was going
to help them in the future. But it was a
400page document and hard for the kids
to understand. And and using wealth.com,
which is a tool that we have available
for our clients, they were able to
create a two-page visual summary of
their trust and estate document that led
to a conversation with their adviserss
and their trust experts that brought a
lot of light to what was in that plan
and and put the whole family on the same
page. And that power of people and
technology, I think, is what will win in
the wealth space. And and we think we're
the winner on both fronts, which is why
we were disappointed and surprised to
see our stock sell off yesterday.
>> So Rick, let's talk about the people
selling and ultimately why they sold
because in their minds, you've got this
company, this small startup that's going
to automate personalized tax strategies
and make it much cheaper and threaten
your pricing power and the pricing power
of wealth managers more broadly. What
are they getting wrong?
Well, I think that advis AI tools like
tax planning, which we have available
today, uh is something that's going to
make advisors more effective, more
consistent, able to serve more clients,
but it's not going to make them less
useful. Ultimately, what the client is
looking for is convenience and
expertise. And the adviserss are going
to continue to play a critical role in
bringing together all the AI tools, all
the right information to have that
discussion with the client. They're
going to lean into relationships.
They're going to lean into judgment.
Ultimately, these are complicated
decisions, very emotional decisions that
often uh involve family dynamics. And
that role of the adviser as a critical
sounding board to the individual and to
the families. We don't think that's
going away, but we think AI will make
those conversations more impactful and
more powerful.
>> So Rick, I don't think market
participants think it's going away
wholesale either. I think what they
think is going to lead to fee
compression and a shift in market share
and ultimately Rick that's the
difficulty that you've got now it's the
difficulty proving the negative that
that won't happen. How do you go about
doing that in the year ahead?
>> You know this is the same story from 10
years ago when uh robo advice was going
to displace the advisor community and
pressure fees. Uh and and if you look at
what's happened first of all I think
we're the biggest robo adviser in the
industry. We have a hundred billion
dollars of assets and and we've provided
that technology to our adviserss who
have used it to be more efficient in
delivering for their clients. But you
haven't seen it displace the growth of
the advisor community. In fact, it's
grown and fees haven't come down. And uh
and that again that was a new technology
10 years ago. It's been additive to the
to the advisor community just as I think
AI will be. And so I don't see fee
pressure. I actually see this
accelerating the importance of the role
of the adviser who's going to have to
work and and bring all these AI tools
together and all the different insights
and make them impactful for the client.
>> Rick, there's a a larger question here,
especially on payrolls Wednesday, which
is I guess where we're at, which is in
order to justify the fees and the
business models, do you need to hire
higher caliber people, but many fewer of
them? In other words, a lot of these
other smaller tasks can be done by
artificial intelligence, by some of the
robo advisory uh programs that you
already have in place. Have you already
seen that come to your business model?
>> We're seeing AI uh help our clients in
multiple ways. One, it's bringing new
tools and capabilities like the tax,
trust, and estate capabilities that
we're using wealth.com that I described
earlier. It's allowing us to reach new
clients. And I think that's why you
won't see the population of of advisors
shrink is is that AI will be useful in
reaching new clients that we couldn't
before. I watched a uh client
interaction in in our Agentic AI
capability pilot that we're using with
clients that we built in partnership
with a leading AI firm uh just this
week. And what that tool was able to do
is have a a direct dialogue with the
client uh digitally that uh understood
what the client wanted and needed. And
then after having a a tactical
conversation asked the client, this
agentic AI said, "Can I call you and
have a broader discussion about your
financial goals and plans?" And this
agentic capability was able to have a
conversation about his desire to put his
two kids through college, to be able to
travel in retirement, and uh ultimately
to leave the legacy to his family. And
then and then that led to a conversation
about a concentrated position he had and
uh and and maybe the need for him to
talk to one of our experts about using a
tax lost harvesting strategy to uh to
diversify that p position. Those are
conversations that at the scale of 46
million clients we couldn't have before.
But now with the power of AI, not only
are we reaching those clients that we
have a relationship with, we're able to
help a whole new group of clients that
we couldn't before. So AI is going to be
powerful for our industry. We're going
to be the natural winner because the
depth of our relationship, our client
base, our technology, and the data and
uh and and we're leaning into this trend
in a significant way because we do think
it's going to be big.
>> It sounds like a lot of what Brian
Moahan of Bank of America said, which is
that the entire business size would grow
tremendously and the size of the
employees might not change, but the
ability to uh capture a larger share of
the market does increase. How much do
you find, Rick, that you have to invest
in some of the technology that you have
to do different capback plans in order
to keep up and make sure you're not left
behind?
>> Well, we're investing a lot and and but
least I'll come back to the to the
benefits. We look over the last five
years in which when we have been
investing heavily in our efficiency and
leveraging AI to do so, our cost to
serve an account has come down 21%. On
an inflation adjusted basis, that's 40%.
Our headcount isn't any lower, but we've
grown and we've used technology and AI
to be more efficient, to serve clients
in different ways, to answer their
questions more efficiently, to do more
digitally. All of that is leading to
cost efficiencies for our business, but
it hasn't meant lower headcount.
>> Rick, if you could point to one thing,
what do you think is your biggest moat
right now?
I think the size and scale of our firm
and the fact that we keep clients at the
very forefront of of everything that we
do. For 51 years, we've been about
client choice and innovation and
technology. If a client wants to work
completely with a robo adviser or or an
AI adviser in the future, we're going to
have those capabilities and we're going
to make it available to the advisers on
our platform. But I think most are going
to work with the combination of people
and technology because these are
emotional decisions where that
combination is going to be really
powerful and we're going to make that
available to our adviserss and to our
clients. So I think our biggest mode is
that we always put the client first. We
innovate, we adapt and we move forward
to make them as best off in their
financial life as they can be.
>> Rick, just as a final question, just to
speak to you as a human being, you
wanted to make this appearance happen
today. We certainly welcomed it. I
always enjoy catching up with you. Was
there something about yesterday that
just kind of pissed you off as a man, as
a leader of a company that made you want
to engage a little bit more?
>> Well, I think there's two things. Number
one, I think that I think the market's
missing that we are a natural winner in
the AI space because of all the
advantages we have because of our size,
our scale, our data. Uh, and so I think
it's important for the for the market to
understand that and see us in as an AI
company. Number two, you know, we've
seen what's happened in some of the
other spaces like software and and we
wanted to be able to come on and tell
our story about why we're so much
different and why AI is a is a is a
beneficial to our business, not a not a
hindrance and it's going to help us
flourish and grow and serve clients in
new ways uh and ultimately lead to the
growth of the company. We saw this with
software names last week and what I
didn't hear much of was insider bank.
Alisa and I were just talking about this
Rick and we're wondering whether you saw
the move and you stepped in.
>> Well, I you know I own a lot of the
stock. I love the stock. I if I'm
allowed to, I'd tell anyone to buy it
where it is today. I think we've got
tremendous upside. If you look at our
earnings last year and our revenue, we
hit all-time highs. Uh, in our winter
business update this year, we guided to
or or created presented a scenario that
would lead to earnings of $5.70 to
$5.80.
2027 looks very bright. We've got so
much going for us and AI is only going
to accelerate our ability to deliver for
clients and grow our firm. So, I
couldn't be more bullish about where we
are and and where the stock is.
>> Rick, thanks for making this happen
today. We appreciate your time. Thank
you, sir. We'll do it again soon. Rick
Worster there, the Charge World
President and CEO on some of the
competition they face now, particularly
with the moves of the last day or so.
>> Look, clearly he's fired up. Clearly, he
wants to defend themselves without a
doubt and he's showing how it can
actually be a beneficial for beneficial
attribute for them. At the same time,
they're facing off with an existential
threat threat that is undefinable
because we don't understand how far some
of this technology is going to go, which
explains the move. A real question of
how this is going to shake out. The
point that Brian Moyahan made is really
important. These are companies with much
bigger businesses and smaller footprints
in the employment side of things. And
that's what he's talking about, too.
Essentially, it's staying the same size,
but their business is growing and
consolidating share across the industry.
>> It's hard to prove the negative. It was
the takeaway with the software story
last week. And it's the takeaway from
the wealth management shakeout you've
seen in the last 24 hours. It's really
difficult to come out and craft a
message that proves the negative.
>> It's like a high school rumor when
someone goes around and saying, "I
didn't say that. I didn't do that."
Everyone's thinking like of course and
that's what happens and it's a similar
kind of feel right now. It's kind of
like a high school playground.
>> Future's doing better. Is that how you
describe the market? Used to be
toddlers, right? And now it's a high
school playground.
>> We've grown up.
>> I know. Good for us. We're up about a
tenth of 1% on the NASDAQ 100. On the
S&P up by.12%
going into payrolls about 16 minutes
away. With an update on everything else
happening in the world. With your
Bloomberg brief is Vonnie Quinn. Hey
Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Ukraine's President Vladimir
Zilinski says he's accepted a US offer
to host another round of talks to end
the war with Russia. Zilinski telling us
here at Bloomberg that the next stage of
talks will zero in on the issue of
territory. He also said that the war
could end within months if the talks
proceed in good faith and Ukraine needs
to approve a final proposal.
Craft Hind shares are lower in the
pre-market. The company announcing it's
pausing its planned breakup into
separate companies as the new CEO, Steve
Kalen, focuses on improving results.
Kalen says his number one priority is
returning the business to profitable
growth. So far this year, shares have
risen just over 2 and a half%. [music]
Nike's turnaround plan apparently in
full swing. CEO Elliot Hill sitting down
with Bloomberg News at the Olympic
Winter Games in Milan.
>> The portfolio that we have, three strong
brands, Nike, Converse, and Jordan.
>> Yeah. The focus on sport and how we're
segmenting each of the brands by sport
and then ultimately paying it off in 190
countries around the world is only only
Nike can do at the size and scale that
we are.
>> Hill and the leadership team at Nike
aiming apparently to reverse the
company's performance. Shares are down
more than 11% over the last year.
[music] And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Up next, we'll
get you some morning calls plus we'll
catch up with the interior secretary
Doug Bergen with major changes coming to
US [music] energy policy. That
conversation up next, live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
The rotation's been going in the
direction that most investors wanted it
to be going to be honest with you. Since
probably November, people have been kind
of selling large cap growth and and kind
of rotating into value and particularly
into cyclicals because anticipation of a
stimulus and a strong US economy. So, we
think there's space to go there.
>> I'm Stuart Kaiser of City Wagon on this
market. Equities look like this this
morning. Up by a [music] tenth of 1% on
the S&P. Likewise on the NASDAQ. A
similar move on the Russell. That's the
price action. Let's get you some morning
[music] calls. First up from Bernstein,
raising its price target on Apple to
340, highlighting Apple intelligence as
the quote big story. Your second call
from Wells Fargo, cutting its price
target on Lift to 18, warning of share
loss concerns ahead of an autonomous
vehicle debut. And finally, city down
creating metal to neutral saying the toy
industry is becoming a story of halves
and have nots. Check out that [music]
move this morning. Matal in the
pre-market down by 28%.
That's some of the morning calls this
morning. Let's turn to energy and
critical minerals. The Trump
administration set to announce a major
shift in climate rules rolling back an
[music] Obama era policy regulating
fossil fuels. On that and more, the US
Interior Secretary Doug Burham joins us
now for more. Mr. Secretary, you have
been a busy man over the last week. I
actually want to start with Project
Vault and then we'll get to the EPA and
what's going to happen with regulations
around fossil fuels and such. Mr.
Secretary, what is Project Vault and how
should I be thinking about this in
comparison to say the SPR?
>> Well, it's absolutely a comparison. The
strategic petroleum reserve has created
a great uh buffer on price shocks for uh
American consumers uh for decades and
decades. We have no equivalent uh on
critical minerals. There are 60 minerals
on the critical minerals list. Some of
those are rare earth elements. Uh China,
as you know, Jonathan, controls about 85
to 100% of the processing and refining
on on about 20 of those. Uh enough to
put a strangle hold on uh global uh
industry, whether it's tech, high-tech,
whether it's defense, uh whether it's
consumer. And so with the threats last
year put out by China on export
controls, the US leapt into action. uh
we're broadly bringing mining back in
America, but this idea of creating a
strategic critical minerals reserve
across 60 different elements driven by
the private sector. Great leadership by
across the board of uh multiple cabinet
secretaries in the Trump administration
working with the XM bank, working with
the private sector about 10 billion in a
loan, about two billion in equity
capital going in. uh this is going to be
private sector funded, marketdriven uh
and the uh those critical minerals will
be stored at locations uh that are
economically uh smart and economically
efficient uh around the country. But the
idea is that we will uh in addition to
that last week there was also at the
state department a historic meeting over
50 countries came to the US uh all of
them some of them already signed on uh
others many others interested joining a
club of nations with free trade on
critical minerals with price floors the
key on price floors is that would block
China from illegal dumping to kill the
price across any one particular critical
mineral uh and that's going to allow the
assurance for capital to start flowing
going back into mining and refining of
these minerals in the US and in our
allies. So, tremendous indust tremendous
interest from uh from the leaders uh
ministers from around the country that
were there at the event hosted at the
State Department last week. So, anyway,
great uh great progress going uh to make
sure that US is secure relative to our
position on critical minerals.
>> And Mr. Secretary, you certainly alluded
to it. China's got a strangle hold over
critical minerals and America needs to
do something about it and overwhelmingly
there's agreement on this program often
almost weekly to do something about it.
What is less understood is why they have
that strangle hold. You talked about
pricing and dumping. What about
regulations? This is typically quite a
dirty process. Has that held back
production domestically as well?
>> Well, there's been an attack on American
energy in this country, but even longer
than that, there's been an attack on
mining uh in our country. And just like
uh President Trump says drill baby
drill, we've got to get back to mine
baby mine. Uh the US graduated 36,000
lawyers last year and about 300 people
with mining and metallurgical degrees.
Uh China of course is not doing it
cleaner than than than any else. I mean
whether they're tearing up the Congo or
Indonesia, child labor, uh illegal
cartels, uh criminal organizations, all
of these things that are going on. It's
a dirty industry potentially for the
environment, but there's a lot of
corruption around that in part because
countries like America or like those in
Europe that ha that have rules that have
EPAs that can do things cleaner, better,
safer, smarter, both in terms of the
environment, in terms of the labor
force, uh basically got out of this
business and we've got to get the free
world's got to get back into the mining
business and show that with innovation
uh that we can do it and we can do it in
a way that protects the environment,
protects the workers, and also then
protects the economy. ies of these
countries and so this is a strategic
importance but for for the United States
to get back in uh and we've and part of
that is the permitting process uh we've
put a strangle hold on permitting but
for President Trump we're breaking the
log jam on permitting big announcements
coming around the endangerment finding
and this is going to be the the a huge a
huge step forward in terms of getting
projects done and keeping keeping plants
open in America
>> Mr. Secretary, there's a question around
refining things like lithium that are
crucial for a lot of the high-tech
aspects that go into our economy.
There's a question about copper really
necessary for the buildout of some of
the hyperscalers in particular. On the
other side, there are things like coal
uh and there's a real question of some
of the roll backs the EPA rules like
lowering uh emission standards as well
as potentially increasing the use of
coal. Why are those necessary to get
some of the national security goals that
you're talking about?
Well, we'll be making some more
announcements on uh beautiful clean coal
today as President Trump likes to call
it and should call it because there's a
coal plant running in America today. It
has survived an onslaught for 20 years.
Uh but they've taken everything
virtually everything out of the knocks,
the socks, the anything that would be
considered uh an issue relative to the
environment. And what's left the attack
on on coal as a base load power has been
largely around CO2 emissions. and with
the reversal of the endangerment finding
uh that says that this was massive
overreach by the Obama EPA uh that we're
we are going to go back to a thing where
we can have consumer choice that's lower
prices and and of course with the big
storms we had in the northeast last
week. I mean uh check back on Secretary
Wright's press conference last Friday,
but we we would though we would have had
millions and millions of people in this
country without power if Cole hadn't
stepped up. Cole was the hero uh of
keeping the lights and the heat on in
America and and all of the money that
has been spent in the northeastern part
of this country on renewables. There was
times during those storms where we had
less than 2% of the power coming from
wind and solar. There was more coming
from burning wood and trash than there
was uh coming from wind and solar and
and uh coal in some parts of the country
was providing 25% of the electricity. So
we need the the the Biden plan of energy
transition was actually energy
subtraction. It wasn't addition. It
wasn't transition. It was subtraction.
They were shutting down base load and
then replacing it with intermittent
unreliable foreign sourced uh forms of
energy that required us to build out uh
all kinds of additional infrastructure
on top of the infrastructure we already
had. That's what drove up prices. And
now we're facing this AI arms race with
China. We need more power. We need
energy addition. The way to have energy
addition is to stop stop getting rid of
the stuff that already works. And of
course that includes our fossil fuel
base load in the PGM market. 70% of the
power was coming from from hydrocarbons.
Uh you know during during those storms I
mean America and the world is dependent
on it and is going to be for the for in
the long future. Innovation is what we
need to help solve any concerns that
people might have about future climate
change.
>> Mr. Secretary, a lot of people could get
on board with that. The problem is that
a lot of people have pointed out that it
feels like there are certain energy
sources that have gotten subtracted in
this administration as well, wind being
among them. That it's not necessarily uh
that we want all energy sources, but
picking winners and losers. How do you
counter that?
>> Well, it's easy because we're we're
we're not picking winners and losers.
We're picking reliable, affordable, uh,
nationally secure uh, sources uh, that
that can provide what Americans need,
what we need for low prices for
consumers, what we need for industry,
and what we need for AI. What we're what
we're not subsidizing any longer is
intermittent, weather dependent, foreign
sourced, uh, which in the case of
offshore wind, uh, hits all three of
those, but it's also the highest cost.
It's not affordable and it's also
opposed by our marine fisheries. I was
meeting with a group of of uh third and
fourth generation fishermen uh in New
England uh last Friday. Uh it's blowing
up their business. These are the farmers
of the sea that put food on our table.
You meet with the marine mammal groups,
the save the whale groups. They're
opposed to offshore. national security
now with there's there's a classified
reports out that the the the the radar
interference and above the water and the
sonar interference below the water of
these massive offshore products
represent real national security risks.
These are not made up things. These are
these are things that have to be
considered particularly related to
offshore. But with the uh the working
families tax cut bill that got passed
last July uh there are people are not
contemplating new projects. We have
companies that are coming to us from
around the world that are saying, "Hey,
we're not going to be building offshore
because we get it. It was only viable
because of the massive tax subsidies."
So, Americans had to pay twice. They had
to pay in terms of higher electric costs
and then they also had to pay uh through
their through these tax subsidies. So,
so it's it's all of the it's all of the
above that are reliable, affordable,
dispatchable, and don't require massive
subsidies. I mean, and that's the level
playing field that we're at right now.
>> Mr. Secretary, just quickly because
people will hate us if we're talking
about wind farms when payrolls comes out
in about 60 seconds time, but I want to
squeeze this in. Courts, as you know,
have ruled against your administration
stop work orders on these offshore wind
farms. Are you going to appeal that?
>> Uh, absolutely we are. Uh, and as I'm
sure as we get into court and have
sessions and share share classified
information, uh, there there will be
further discussions on this. Uh, you
know, people are saying that, oh, this
is some ideological attack on offshore
wind. No, this is like a real genuine
concern, and as Americans, we should be
concerned. No one's reading a story
about pilots getting shot down in a Iran
uh or in the Russian Ukraine war because
everything is autonomous. It's
autonomous on autonomous. And if you've
got massive radar interference just off
our huge population centers, if you
wanted to attack America, you would
launch autonomous drones through those
through those things. Or you you launch
autonomous submarines because of the
sonar interference. And so we just have
to wake up. Warfare has changed in the
last four years. The world's different
and we have to be ready to respond to
it.
>> Mr. Secretary, we'll talk another time.
A little bit more about this, no doubt.
Thank you, sir. The US Interior
Secretary Doug Bergam there. I promised
that we wouldn't be talking about wind
farms when payrolls comes out. Payrolls
is out in about 8 seconds time. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 firm here by
about a tenth of 1% on the S&P. On the
NASDAQ 100 up by a tenth on the Russell
up by 0.2. The jobs number we're looking
for in our survey, the median estimate
65K. We have got a nice big upside
surprise 130. That is 130,000 payrolls.
The estimate in our survey was 65. To
work through the rest of the report,
looking at monthly earnings, average
hourly earnings month, that comes in at
0.4. That is also an upside surprise.
The estimate in our survey was 0.3. And
this is the right kind of downside
surprise. The unemployment rate coming
in at 4.3. The estimate was 4.4.
So going through this just data point by
data point, a highle read on things.
Upside surprise on payrolls. Wages just
a little bit hotter month and the
unemployment rate lower than expected of
4.3% against an estimate of 4.4. The
outperformance in the equity market,
guess where that comes? It comes from
the Russell. Russell 2000 futures
outperforming off the back of this.
Let's push it through the equity market
on the S&P on the NASDAQ on the small
cap. So far this morning, the S&P up by
0.3. Likewise on the NASDAQ, there's
your outperformance, up by 0.6 on the
Russell. In the bond market, yields have
been drifting lower over the last few
days off the back of weaker than
expected economic data. Off the back of
that, yields higher by five basis points
on tens. And at the front end of the
curve, twos up by nine. We can get to
the benchmark revisions in just a
moment. We were expecting some big
numbers. I can tell you we've got some
big numbers, but so far just the focus
on this jobs report, that jobs report
better than expected.
>> That sound you hear is a huge market
that is pricing out rate cuts anytime
soon because ultimately people are
saying this and maybe dismissing some of
the data that we got yesterday. Two-year
yields surging up more than seven basis
points, which gives you a sense of how
much people are repricing. How much was
that a head fake that we got yesterday
in terms of retail sales and consumer
delinquencies? 4.3%. The fact that the
unemployment rate went down was not in a
lot of people's bingo cards.
>> The dollar stronger off the back of this
as well. Euro dollar down by about a
third of 1%. Euro dollar right now 1855.
So, a few things were happening this
morning. One was the jobs report and the
other was the annual benchmark revisions
and that subtracted 862,000
jobs. That's not a typo. 862,000 jobs
subtracted. The estimate was negative
825,000.
So, I'd say that's roughly in line with
expectations. as dramatic as it is. The
story this morning though is the bounce
back we're seeing in payrolls for
January and whether that's going to
continue given what's been happening in
the equity market and the vicious
rotation we've seen into most cyclical
parts of stocks
>> especially because the outperformance in
the in the headline number really came
from private payrolls. If you take a
look at the private payrolls number that
was 172,000 versus the expected 68,000
that is more than twice as much as what
we were expecting in terms of what Wall
Street analysts had pencileled in. This
just shows this does point to robust
growth even with 17,000 jobs taken off
the two-month average in terms of what
the revisions were. So if you take a
look at the bigger picture, this seems
to weigh in on the everything's just
okay front rather than uhoh, the sky
might be falling in a couple months
time.
>> Don't panic. Kevin Hassid said no one's
panicking looking at that. It's fair to
say Kevin hadn't seen the numbers. I
think that that's the takeaway is that
the people who came out talking about
potentially seeing lower numbers had not
seen these numbers and this is
confirmation right here.
>> Ander Karan joins us now from Washington
DC to break down some of this. So let's
start with the jobs report for January
and then we can get to the benchmark
revisions. What's your reaction to that?
>> Face value. It's a very strong number
John like you were just mentioning
there. 130,000 on the month stronger
[clears throat] than expected and within
the details some strong numbers. Look at
manufacturing adding I think it was
5,000 jobs. That's a big turnaround from
the manufacturing story of last year.
The unemployment rate falling as well.
That's un unexpected. Uh and the private
sector seems to be driving the job story
because the government h continues to
lose staff looking at the headlines
coming out from this from the data so
far. So as I say face value first
reaction these numbers lend themselves
to you know at the very least the
stabilizing jobs market that the Fed
were talking about a few weeks ago.
Andy, you've heard the push back
multiple times. It'll be no different
this morning. People will say there's
narrow breath here. Most of this is
healthcare. They'll also say, "Look at
the benchmark revisions. All of this
will just get revised away in the year
ahead." Are they wrong?
>> Well, the benchmark revisions are
notable. They've obviously come in a
little bit better than expected,
Jonathan, coming in with an eight handle
rather than the nine handle. So, that's
not insignificant. I think though, in
terms of, you know, policym world,
they're already ahead of the curve on
that. they would have anticipated given
the preliminary revisions that we had
that the jobs market would be that much
weaker last year anyway. So to some
extent that story is baked into the
cake, but there's no doubt about it that
and that's that's that's what I said
earlier at face value the January
figures are strong. But of course there
will be a revision story not just on a
month-by-month basis but again when we
get to the end of the year some of this
will be recalculated and but right here
right now you'd have to say that that
January number at least suggests a
healthier jobs market than a lot of
people were expecting.
>> Ender Karen with the latest down in
Washington. Enda thank you. If you're
just joining us welcome to the program.
A decent surprise, a welcome surprise.
Let's go through the data together and
then we'll turn to stocks, bonds, and
foreign exchange. In the jobs data, an
upside surprise, the headline number
130. The median SMR survey was 65.
That's strong. You turn to wages, that
comes in just a little bit hotter than
expected month over month on hourly
earnings. Month over month, that comes
in at 0.4. The estimate was 0.3.
Downward revision to the previous month.
Keep that in mind. The unemployment rate
drops to 4.3. We were looking for 4.4.
So, at first look, you look at that and
you're like, okay, let me go to the
equity market. And I think small caps
are outperforming and they are. They're
up by almost 1% as this market continues
to drift towards the more cyclical parts
of the equity market. An endorsement
from the data this morning which goes
against the grain of the last few days.
Weak unexpected retail sales, jobless
claims, challenger job cuts, jobs, all
of that stuff feels like a distant
memory all over again. All of a sudden
people are like, "Yes, I knew this was
going to happen." Look at the ISM
manufacturing. That was great. It all
makes sense. It all makes sense now,
doesn't it? Turn to the bond market.
Twos, tens, and 30-year bond yields are
drifting higher. Two-year bond yields up
by eight basis points. So up eight basis
points at the front end of the curve. 10
tenyear yields up five to 419. It's a
repricing of the curve particularly at
the front end which of course is more
sensitive to interest rate reductions or
hikes over at the Federal Reserve and
Fed policy more broadly. And the idea
that we're getting a cut is going to get
pushed out and TSON stock of Apollo is
probably feeling better about himself
and this conversation about rate hikes
by year end.
>> Look, it's up by three basis points. I
told you they were too low, those
10-year yields. Look, ultimately what
you are seeing in markets is now less
than a 20% chance of a rate cut priced
in by March and then really ongoing just
removing that chance throughout the
remainder of the year partly because it
does seem like the labor market is not
cracking. That said, and this is
actually a comment from a Bloomberg user
which I think is a really interesting
one which is annual benchmark revisions,
updated birth death model and new
seasonal factors. It's apples to oranges
comparisons. What data are we actually
looking at? I mean look ultimately the
market is taking this at face value and
I am too because ultimately it's a good
sign to see that there is job creation
particularly in the private sector. On
the flip side how do you get some sort
of longer trajectory look based in all
the revisions the seasonal everything
that's been going on.
>> Good luck Mike Gap and he joins us now
Michael Gap and Morgan Stanley. Mike
good to see you. Welcome to the program.
>> It's all clear now isn't it?
>> If I was calling you as a client my
first question would be Mike how much
confidence can I have in this? Is this
the real deal? I I think it's largely
the real deal. Everything that you
mentioned is completely fair benchmark
revisions, new birth death adjustments.
Uh there's favorable seasonal factors in
this report, but does it wipe away
170,000 private payrolls? Probably not.
I mean, we were at 90,000 on private
payrolls and I felt optimistic, right?
So, if if truth is 90, I'm I'm super
happy with that number, right? So, at
170, I think it's hard to to bring all
of that back and and look through it. So
I and to your point it does fit a lot of
other data points in in the economy.
Durable goods have been strong. ISM has
picked up. Manufacturing output has been
on on an upward trend. Uh so seeing some
complimentary hiring alongside that is
is a welcome sign for the economy.
>> Do you think focusing on December retail
sales like we were yesterday is a waste
of time. Are you expecting a bounce
back? Should we just see that as a head
fake?
>> I think we will see some bounce back but
not not entirely. There is softness in
that report, but just remember even in
what I'll call normal times, retail
sales is very volatile. Gets revised
frequently. So the signal out of retail
sales, I think, is always kind of maybe
second order. I think the market puts
more weight on it than than it otherwise
should. Um, but look, even even with
that number, consumption is likely to
come in at around 2.3% in the fourth
quarter. Still a solid number with a
weak December retail sales.
>> Are these good jobs that are being
created? Do we have a sense of the
quality of them?
>> Well, I haven't seen the mix. Uh but I I
think you know you the average hourly
earnings number at point4 suggests that
you know there there quality jobs on on
that front. That's an average number
across all the sectors. Um so I think
any job is better than no job. So I I
certainly think there's quality in it.
Yes.
>> I guess that I'm looking at for example
124,000 created in health and social
assistance, private education 137. I
mean, some of the the main winners have
really come from a couple of sectors
that are sort of independent of the
cycle. It's that we're getting older and
that we're paying a lot of money for our
kids to go to college. I mean, how much
can we glean strength from these numbers
and a sense of sustainability?
>> Well, the narrowness of job gains has
always been the question. The narrowness
of growth in the economy has always been
an issue. It's spending by upper income
consumers. It's AI related business
spending. Our thesis is that you will
see some broadening out in 2026. So as
you mentioned the the rebound in small
caps. Uh we do think that if you get a
stabilization in the labor market,
inflation does come down, it can support
purchasing power of other parts of the
economy and and the economy can broaden
out. But uh so the narrowness of of the
recovery and the ongoing expansion is is
an issue. We think it'll broaden out.
We'll see if it happens. Right now,
you're seeing the market price out or
push back some of the expected rate cuts
to July from June previously in the
sense that maybe this is not an economy
that needs rate cuts. There are a number
of people at the Federal Reserve who
believe you should keep running this
economy hot because otherwise people
could lose their jobs and the whole
restructuring that takes place with
artificial intelligence and if you don't
do that, you'll get scarring that lasts
a long time. Where do you fall on that?
Do you think that that's a legitimate
argument that you should proactively cut
rates at a time of structural change? I
think they've done some of that. I I
think it's it's easy to see that they've
they've done that over the last two
years. The question is kind of where do
where does that process end? I I think
the June July period for the next rate
cut is about right. And this this data
today says rate cuts if and when they
come will be based on inflation. So when
does the committee get evidence that
inflation is decelerating that tariffs
are a transitory upward push on on
inflation? sometime around the middle of
the year is probably where that evidence
comes through. But to your question, I
think they have done some cutting
preemptively to support the labor market
and prevent some downside risk. We'll
see ultimately if that was enough.
>> I noticed that was your focus coming
into the new year looking at the dual
mandate that you thought the inflation
side of things, price stability was
going to be more instructive for the
future of Fed policy. Is that right?
>> That's right. And this number I think
confirms that. Right. So they had to do
some they they decided the Fed uh to do
some risk management rate cuts to
support downside or prevent downside
risk to the labor market. They put in 75
basis points of cuts. The data suggests
that things are stabilizing. So if and
when the Fed cuts further it will be you
know where inflation is coming out of
the first quarter. We think it'll be
about 3% yearonear. We think it'll
settle down to about 2 and a half by the
end of the year. Somewhere in there is
room for a few more rate cuts. the two
and a half.
>> We cut around two and a half now.
>> No. Well, we we're thinking three.
>> Okay. All right. Michael Gap of Morgan
Stanley. Michael, thank you. Appreciate
it. Thank you very much. So, not quite
Governor Myron style rate cuts, but
we're getting rate cuts.
>> You know who else thinks that we're
going to get rate cuts and also thinks
that we're going to get three rate cuts?
Cityroup. And guess what? They nailed
it. They got 135,000. We got 130,000.
So, they nailed it. And they still think
we get three rate cuts this year. So, it
sort of speaks to exactly what Michael
Gabin is. That's the moment we're in. A
great divide on Wall Street at the
moment that you can offer one bank 130
and they're like, "Yeah, great." And
another bank 130 and they're like,
"Yeah, the Fed's still going to become
three times."
>> Yeah. And ultimately, it comes down to
the evolution of inflation. So, get
ready for Friday, CPI Friday, because it
is going to be an exciting one
considering that now this is a market
that's focusing more on exactly how much
room that gives the Fed.
>> So, if you are just tuning in, welcome
to the program. A nice welcome upside
surprise on headline payrolls. That
comes in at 130. The estimate was 65. If
the unemployment rate pulls back, that's
the right count of downside surprise.
We're down to 4.3. The estimate was 4.4.
And in the equity market, there's your
outperformance on the Russell. It
continues. The rotation gets some more
oxygen. The Russell 2000 up by 0.8%. And
notable at the front end of the yield
curve. We repric higher and push out
rate cuts up by seven basis points. The
2-year at 352. With an update on that
and a whole lot more with your Bloomberg
brief is Vonnie Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. So, yeah, recapping all of
that again, the major upside surprise
for the labor market. non-farm payrolls
for January coming in at 130,000. That's
more than double the average analyst
estimate. The annual benchmark figures
were revised down but close to
expectations. The unemployment rates
ticked down to 4.3% and that was below
estimates.
More details emerging on the fight for
Warner Brothers Discovery. [music]
Activist investor Ankora, which recently
disclosed a $200 million interest in the
media giant, strongly opposes the
proposed merger with Netflix. The film
released uh the firm even released a
presentation urging Warner Brothers's
board to engage with Paramount's offer,
which last amounted to $30 per share in
cash.
The Super Bowl drew a TV audience of
nearly 125 million viewers. NBC said
that was a 2.2% decline from last year's
record. Unlike last year, the big game
competed for viewers with the Winter
Olympics, which are also being broadcast
by NBC Universal. [music] And that is
your Bloomberg brief. John, thank you.
We're blaming the Winter Olympics for
those numbers.
>> Of course, is that what that was?
>> That's ridiculous.
>> Really? Honestly,
>> come [music] on. Okay, up next on the
program, Jim Biano of Biano Research.
With bond yields jumping as payrolls
blow past expectations, plus Jihara has
your morning mover as Shopify gaming
after a fourth quarter revenue beat.
We should do payrolls Wednesday more
often if we get numbers like this. An
upside surprise 130 the estimate 65k.
Wages [music] alley earnings a little
bit hotter than expected and the
unemployment rate just a touch lower
than anticipated. Equities up across the
board and some outperformance on the
Russell. We're up by 0.9% on the Russell
[music]
2000. In the bond market, yields higher
at the front end. The 2-year yield up by
eight basis points. The 10-year [music]
bond yield up by five as we repric
Federal Reserve interest rate cuts and
push them out by a month or so. As we
count you down to the opening about 42
minutes away, let's get you some single
names and morning movers. Yhira has
more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. After a rough week for Shopify
getting caught in the software selloff,
it is in the midst [music] of a
comeback. Shares have climbed for three
straight sessions, getting a boost
yesterday from Moffett Nathansson,
upgrading the stock and today the shares
are soaring up nearly 11% after it beat
on revenue during the holiday quarter
and gave a strong guide for the first
[music] quarter. Meanwhile, moving on to
Mattel not having the same luck. Shares
are falling 30% in the pre-market after
it posted a significant miss and issued
weaker [music] than expected guidance.
to Barbie maker saying it expected
holiday sales to surge but that did not
materialize saying [music] that
consumers were hunting for deals and
retailers managed their inventories very
carefully and we end on the
semiconductor company Astera Labs shares
are [music] plunging 11% in the
pre-market after revenue fell short of
the more lofty estimates out there plus
some analysts are flagging that
operating expenses were higher than
expected limiting the company's earnings
beat John
>> Yara thank you thanks Thanks for the
update as we count you down to the open
bound. The cash open up just around the
corner with equity futures [music] on
the S&P as session highs up by 0.5%.
Let's keep it on the data. An upside
surprise 130,000 jobs added in the month
of January. Traders now pushing out this
year's first rate cut to July from June.
Joining us now to discuss is Jim Biano
of Biano Research. Jim, the obvious
question I asked Mike Gapen, I'll ask
you, Jim, is whether this is the real
deal. How much confidence can you have
in that job sprint?
Oh, I I think you could have some
confidence in the jobs print. I mean, I
know there was a lot of revisions and I
know historically January and July are
the most suspect months for seasonal
adjustments, but that number was so
strong in January that even if you were
to give it a a wider birth because of
seasonal adjustments, it was still a
good number. And I think that with the
revisions, I think you can have a decent
number on it. You know, the real
question is we average 15,000 jobs a
month in 2025, but yet we still have 2.5
or 2.7% GDP growth for the year. That's
what the estimate is. The stock market
was up 17%. I think if you went back a
year ago and you would have told us, you
know, we're going to average 15,000
payroll jobs a month for 2025. We
wouldn't have expected the stock market
to do what it's doing and we wouldn't
have expected growth overall to be as
strong as it was. This is partly because
this market believes what Kevin Hassid
is saying is that this is a supply side
issue as much as it is a demand side one
and it's come from lower immigration and
the fact that the population isn't
growing. What do you make though of
where wage growth fits into this given
the fact that we really haven't seen the
commensurate wage growth that would
signal that kind of labor market
tightness that maybe some of these
numbers might uh give hope for?
>> Yeah. And I I mean I'll underscore what
you just said by pointing out that in
the press conference two weeks ago, Jay
Paul said that labor supply, how many
jobs the US economy need is effectively
halted. Meaning I'm taking that to mean
it's very close to zero. So if you're
going to print, you know, 100 plus
thousand jobs well into 170 for private
sector, I guess I'm not going to be
surprised that we saw wage growth at
4/10en of a percent. Because if we're
going to have if we are going to see
100,000 job months, we're going to see
wage growth with that too. We're going
to see wage inflation with that. So I
think it might be coming if we're going
to see some big numbers like this.
>> So if you bleed this through the market,
what is the trade? I mean, ultimately,
if you do believe what market
expectations are telling us, it's that
in July we're going to get a rate cut.
If Croup is correct, we're going to get
three rate cuts. It seems like uh Morgan
Stanley is on the same page. Does that
leave the tenure in a perilous place and
does that leave cyclicals with a wind
behind their backs?
>> On the second part, yes, I think that
the broadening out of the stock market
cyclicals that anything that's not AI
related is a big winner in what we're
seeing with the economic data right now.
As far as the tenure goes and the Fed,
uh, we've seen this movie before that
the market will perpetually price the
next rate cut four months away. And in
four months away, it'll be four months
away unless the data turns. If the data
continues like we see high twos, maybe
low threes on inflation and two plus
something, you know, in GDP growth
commiserate with all the data being
consistent with that, which is what we
have been seeing. We're not going to get
to that rate cut. Now, maybe when we get
a a Kevin Walsh as Fed chairman,
there'll be some political pressure on
him to cut rates because the president
has said he's going to sick his lawyers
on him if he doesn't. But other than
that, I don't think the data is going to
basically support that any rate cuts, at
least for the near term.
>> We were told, Jim, that's part of a
stand-up routine. That was just a joke.
He wasn't serious. I've got no idea what
the future holds. Jim, just to follow
up, you've seen what Torson Slo's got to
say. He thinks a rate hike is part of
the conversation at year end. It's
provocative piece. I'm sure you've read
it. What did you make of it?
>> I mean, his argument, I think, is right,
and I don't think we're that far away
from it because the assumption, if you
listen to all your guests to come on,
the assumption is everything will slow
down by mid year. Inflation will come
down, the economy will slow. But if it
doesn't and it continues on the
trajectory that we've been on for the
last three or four or five months and
inflation stays sticky around 3%, I
think it would be fair to start talking
about rate hikes because at that point
you could argue that the neutral funds
rate is close to 4%. And currently we're
at 3 and a half right now.
>> Jim, it's good to hear from you, sir.
Jim Biano there of Biano Research.
Following the jobs data, the jobs
numbers are really noisy and they are
subject to great revision and we've seen
that through the last couple of years
and you see it again this morning. If
you [snorts] want a decent anchor of
where this labor market is at, not a
perfect one, this is an imperfect one,
but a decent anchor of where things are
at, the unemployment rate is a decent
way of doing it. That's why we started
the program. That's where we're going to
finish the program. That if you want a
decent measure of slack, you can look to
unemployment and or you could look to
wages. And the fact that the
unemployment rate has come down and
continued to come down is an encouraging
sign that even with jobs growth as muted
as it has been, better today, but as
muted as it has been, we haven't seen
that slack continue to increase.
>> And not only that, but you also saw
average hourly earnings increase or
exceed the expected bump of 0.3% and
actually come in at 0.4%. So all of this
painting a pretty rosy picture when you
look under the hood of where the job
growth came from.
>> Healthare.
>> It came from healthcare. I mean, I think
that this is really interesting. Private
education and healthcare services,
137,000 jobs created. Where didn't it
come from? Government. 42,000 jobs taken
out there. And guess where else?
Financial activities. That trimming
around the edges down 22,000 jobs in the
financial activities areas. So, it's a
really interesting picture where the job
uh creation is really shifting around.
>> Want to see more of it. Goes against the
grain just a bit given the data we've
seen recently. Certainly want to see a
lot more of this. I think if you go to
the next Fed meeting though and
unemployment is falling and not
climbing, it's difficult to make the
case to reduce interest rates anytime
soon.
>> That's why July gets a lot more
interesting and that's why the worst Fed
gets a lot more interesting, especially
if the market doesn't see the data to
justify rate cuts. But you do have the
legal threat maybe haha uh threat
overhanging over the Fed chair uh to
potentially go forth with a rate cut
regardless of
>> better on a Wednesday because we can
talk about it on Thursday and Friday and
>> it sets up CPI
>> story doesn't die into the weekend. I
think this is actually really good.
>> This is good. It's a trial run. We
should do it more often.
>> I was gonna say the same thing. It was a
successful trial run.
>> Coming up tomorrow, Congressman French
Hill, Kristen Bidley of City, Megan
Graer of Barclays, and Matt Lazetti
[music] of Deutsche Bank from New York
City. Thank you for choosing Bloomberg
TV. This was Bloomberg Surveillance.